Through the eternal time, the human world And heaven both live in peace, everything happens according to destiny. It is said that the Heaven of Emperor has pre-written everything's fate in the Sealed Book, like a script waiting to be played out. But some believe, people should decide on their own fate. Just like how Zixia believes that Joker is the one she is destined to love. However, in Joker's heart, there is only place for his wife, Pak Jing Jing. Zixia refuses to accept such fate, decides to use the moonlight box to travel through time in order to preview the future. After learning how everything would end, She is determined to change the outcome against all odds. Zixia... Take it Zixia Zixia, Zixia. What did you see in the future? Why are you breaking up with me now? Why? Why...Wh Stop, don't come closer! Ok, I stay! Then tell me, when you time traveled with the Moonlight box? What did you see? I saw another woman in your heart-Pak Jing Jing. She said such things to you. Your conscience told me, it is not me who you love, but another woman, when I saw the mark she had left in your heart, I realized that it is not me who you have been searching in the past 500 years, but her. You and I should both believe, it is fate, what they also call destiny. What she has left, was a drop of tear. When her tear drop melt with your heart, You will forget me, and falls in love with her. He cannot fall in love with me! Zixia Why don't you tell him how it would end? If he finds out that he is the Monkey King, it will terrify him. Didn't you always want to marry a great hero? But I saw how it would end, he cannot fall in love with me, if he falls in love with me, I would die. No, I have to bring him back to Pak Jing Jing. Coming! Zixia! Am I seeing this for real? Zixia... Ah That Pak woman you want me to meet, whatever her name is. Pak Jing Jing Why? She is to be your wife 500 years later. Aren't you my wife? Shut up! And wait for me here. Only a true wife can order her husband around, I feel we are becoming more like a couple, Yes! Don't go in. Pak Jing Jing is fighting the Snake Demon over a man! How dare you ask me to leave him? Yes, how dare you? Yes! How Dare you? How dare you? So what! I don't like you! So what. Because of these 100 pieces of silver. Whatever can be bought cannot be sincere! So what you are rich, it's not even that much money. Stop, all of you. Pretty boy does not have a conscience. If love can be bought with 100 pieces of silver, then I offer 500 pieces. So generous. Whatever I offer to her, I can give to you This trick can only fool little girls Because I love you two so much, I would give my life to prove it. Wow! Are you serious? How could such wonderful man exists? They fight just like how you fought with Lady Spring. How long haven't you seen her? Last I heard, you dumped her after you met the Monkey King. Snake, it's none of your business. You think I want to care? He is looking all over for you. So what if he finds me? I'm not afraid of him. Forget it, do your thing Saire, Saire! Such a pretty face and nice body No wonder Joker is all over you. Who is Joker? Who are you? Who am I! I am the matchmaker sent by god. I am engaged to that stupid Monkey. I have no feeling for other men. I hate you girls, Spend all day chasing after that stupid money That was my sister, hope she didn't scare you. Listen, Joker is the Monkey King from 500 years later. He is now a pretty boy, dump the Monkey, marry him instead. Oh, you must be one of Monkey's women, Trying to make me dump Monkey for that Jo whatever? Joker Don't even think about making me leaving Monkey, That Joker dude, you can keep him for yourself. I am not easily fooled. Keep trying then I will kill you. Silly tricks, you are going to die Hey, what do you want? What? I'm trying to kill her Sister, no! No more bullshit Calm down, sister! Which sister? You decided yet? My sister is taking over. Get out of my way! Calm down, please! Let me take over! Spare me the split personality act, I'd rather die than marrying the Joker. What happened? I don't know. Fell down in a blink of an eye. I ask you again, are you marrying him or not? Huh? She is forcing me to marry! Forcing you? Who dares to commit such evil act! What happened? I don't know. Fell down in a blink of an eye. Was I too fast? Should I do it again? - I will kill you! - I won't let you get away with this! Hahaha... Ah! Do you yield? yes..yes If someone gives you trouble later, say my name! Yes, boss! What boss? I'm no gangbanger, call me master. Yes, Master! Good, call me master, bow to my will. Yes First job for you. What is it? To seduce a man. What? To seduce a man? Him, come in! Yes! Coming, coming What I want is true love, if the price for such love is to leave Joker all alone in life, I'd rather be the one who is lonely. I use to believe in fate, but now I believe in myself only. I must rewrite this tragedy. Creating a happy ending for Joker and his wife Pak Jing Jing. You are... Don't know you. Ok, let's go. You don't know her? She is your wife Pak Jing Jing! He's joker, your husband from 500 years later. 500 later? Yes! I don't get it! Enough talking, let's go. - What? - Well, this is what happened. Let me fill you in. In a very dark night, you, Pak Jing Jing, him, Joker, sparked up a romantic love affair. He turned around, you pointed at him, his hands caught fire, and you caught him. You hit him harder and harder, and harder. And then, the story reached its turning point and climax, you may fill in the blanks yourself, now to the point, In order to save you, he used the moonlight box to travel through time, but the box failed to work, Bang! Here we are, this is what happened. So sorry about this. My wife has a bit of a mental issue, let's go home for the medicine, lets go... I am not ill, let me go. You have to be ill I am not ill. Hey, what you doing? Look at this, this is the jade plate that you will give to him 500 years later, he brings with him at all times. That is hers. I don't mind you to have Monkey King, Of course I wouldn't mind you to have a second man, but you cannot leave me out of the loop. Who are they to you? Isn't it obvious? Of course they have something to do with me. Shut up! Don't even think about getting close to Pak Jing Jing. Then why won't you leave Jing Jing alone? She has her Joker, you have your second chief. What second chief. Your baby daddy. What... See? She says what?...are you ill? See I told you she is sick, you wouldn't believe me. Ok, let's go home for medicine, lets go. Ask him if you will, did she have a baby with the second chief, I am not ill. Wait, before I know you, I did have a lot of boyfriends, but I do not know any second chief, which means it was a one night stand, I don't even remember the baby daddy's name, How could I remember that I had a son? OK, then! So you go on your merry way, we split from now on. Hey, I am the one who dumps people, Stop, you bitch! Time for medicine Let me go, what are you doing. Its their business, you should let them handle it Pak Jing Jing is your wife. You already messed them up enough, Now you want me to help making it worse. God has made you and I a couple, can't we focus on us first? You cannot like me Why not? Because, because you met her first. No, I met you first. How come? You traveled 500 years to meet me, in order to find her. You are from 500 years ago, I met her 500 years later, of course I met you first. But I just sort out 500 years of mess. Let's move on, give me a kiss... What you doing? You stink! I get it, You are now Qingxia, That's why you hit me, but love is fearless, I won't let your sister intimidate me. I get it! Love needs time, Calm yourself. Wow, sword... Why did you hit him? He tried to kiss me, of course I would hit him. You want to die, to end with a tragedy, I will not be part of it. No, I cannot let that tragedy happen again, to leave him alone like this. Oh damn, you are doomed. What? I just don't want to die, So I must fix it. You are trying to rewrite the end, of course everything is messed up. Ok That's it. History says I cannot marry the King Bull, Now I can do it. If I marry the King Bull, Joker will give up, then I won't die. Ok, I need to go to the King Bull. Zixia, where are you? Zixia? Where are you? Ahh, ZiXia! Zixia, where are you? Zixia, where are you? If I don't get out of this desert, I will die Zixia, What the hell? Monkey King, You promised Buddha to accompany the Longevity monk to go on the pilgrimage. Monkey King? But now you dare to conspire with the King Bull, intending to eat your master Spare me the talk, you chased me for 3 days, I did not hit you because you are a woman, Don't think that I'm afraid you. Monkey, how could you talk to Guanyin like this. Evil East? Wrong, it's me, Longevity Monk, I happened to travel here using the moonlight box, you want to kill me, I don't blame you, but you should not insult Guanyin. It's me, the master should be blamed for my pupil's fault, It affects my brand name. Listen to him, there he goes with his non-sense again. I'm going to kill you, Because you have taken my moonlight box, Asshole. Why won't you see reason? I stole your moonlight box, because you wanted to kill me, or else why would I ran away using your moonlight box? You want to kill me, of course I'm running, if you don't want to kill me, then I Won't need to run, you want to...don't you get my reasons? Don't you get my reasons? I cannot stand you anymore You cannot stand me? I cannot stand you. Ahhh... Monkey King I am done with you, now I shall continue with time travel . (Casting Spell) You filthy animal Insignificant trick, I piss better than your magic. Much better, that's it! But don't you forget, My golden cudgel is borrowed from the Dragon King... It is the Ocean Quieting Needle! Turn... Cloud Somersault I shall enforce justice on behalf of heaven. C'mon, what else you got Capture! May the Buddha preserve us. Lord have mercy Brother! Brother, where are you? - Shh -Ghost Brother Who? Haha...here you are, brother. Me? Brother? It is me, King Bull. King Bull? Damn, King Bull You caught the Longevity Monk, haha, good for you! Obviously I'm avatar, how could I be the Longevity Monk, Sir. Oh Sir, I'd recognize you even if your turn into ashes. A monk should not lie, may the Buddha preserve us. It is not too late for you to know that, brother, let me introduce my new wife to you, follow me. Ah Back! Jade Emperor, I have captured the Monkey King by your order. Thank you for your effort, Guanyin. When I enter the human world, I found the world is filled with grievance, monsters run wild. I do not remember the Sealed Book record it this way. Please do not worry, Guanyin. The Sealed book follows the rule of the universe, it cannot be wrong. I hope it is as you have recorded, Zixia's death can reform the Monkey King, keeps him motivated to accompany the Longevity Monk on the pilgrimage. I shall return to report the progress to Buddha, so we can prepare to receive the pilgrims. Farewell, Master Guanyin. Six Ears Monkey, your disguise as the Monkey King during the pilgrimage has fooled them all, my plan is finally... going to succeed! Come out! I knew this is a perfect plan. When I found out the Sealed Book had an error, making the Joker born 500 years later than the Longevity Monk and Piggy, causing the journey of pilgrimage to lack one key member. Fortunately I have decided to have you to disguise as the Monkey King until the real one can take over 500 years later. This way, no one would know the difference, haha, such great plan. Hahaha... You would still need a great actor like me to play along, even the Longevity Monk and Guanyin did not realize that I was a fake, such genius. You are right, Six Ears Monkey, You are a great faker, let's drink to it! Cheers, Great working with you. Speaking of faking, You are the best, Jade Emperor. Thank you. But we still need to do one more thing. What it is? To burn you alive... haha Haha, you got me with that one. I really do mean to burn you alive, you violated the holy law anyways. If I did not rescue you from burning in the Great Oven, why would you be Willing to work for me Oh, you are looking for this knife? Take it, I can pass it to you But you cannot move, you are poisoned, I'm not. I took the cure. You ungrateful bastard I only wish to finish what I started. Did you remember when Zixia and Qingxia first entered the heaven, you seduced Qingxia and violated the most sacred holy law, you were meant to be burnt in the Great Oven. So even if I execute you now, you had your fun in the human world, how could I be called ungrateful? Ah hahaha... We agreed on sharing one mortal body, how come now I only gets control during the day and you get it for the night? You would marry to a filth like King Bull in order to get rid of Joker. If I do not control our body at night, that big bull is going to climb on top, you may be ok with it but I'm not. Is that the true reason? Yes Where is the moonlight box? Where did you put it? Who? Are you afraid? Charlie Chin. Not afraid, just don't wish to see you here I know Guanyin is hunting you, I am here to save you. Don't you believe me? Using this, Guanyin can no longer find you, but I have one condition. I knew it, how could you be so kind, Say it. Why... did you leave without saying goodbye that day. I am a free man, I do not like to be tied down! I can forgive your betrayal, but you cannot betray the Longevity Monk. Why not? Monkey King, I have chased you for three days, Show yourself. I can pretend to be Zixia and misguide her, saying that you have stolen the moonlight box. Why would you help me? Because... I have seen you making the mistake once, I will not let it happen again! Ah, You went to see the player dude. Who are you? Who am I? My Son, someone is asking who you mother is. My mother? My mother is the Iron Fan Princess, also known as the wife of King Bull, people call her the first wife. She specializes in handling mistresses like you. Huh? - Brother Bull, hear me out, - Brother, I was just debating what's for the main course here you are with the Longevity Monk, how about we make a Longevity Monk stew? We are not familiar with each other, right? Tell him I'm being truthful, We just met, right? Get out of here! Ah! Ah! Zixia Ah! Joker Ah? She is your wife? You stupid bull Ah! Wife Ah, Monkey King... Ah? Me? Four people, I thought there were six? Their relationship seems really complicated, don't you get it? How dare you to cheat on me with a mistress! Take this token, go find my sister Bull Xiang Xiang. - Yes yes, - Hurry! - Zixia, get up - Monkey King...Stop! Can we talk about this, okay? There is nothing to talk about! Come down here, now! Oh you, never, over my dead body Coming down or not? - No way - It is not up to you Why are you following me? I'm not following you, it is fate, You said we are destined to be together. I cannot leave, you should get back to your wife Lady, what use is it? He can leave, but his heart stays. - This is... - He is...from Mars What? He time travels often, hurt his head. He told me that he went to Mars Am I wrong? He only sees you in his eyes. No, we cannot be together Why? you said so yourself, Whoever pulls out the ZiQing sword, will be the one you love. It ends here, we should break up No! We have just begun, how can we break up so soon... I do not like speedy break up. I don't like it either Hey, where do you come from, kiddo? Let's go! What, where? No more break up? Women are so fickle! Go! Hurry up! Stand your ground What is it? Spectacular Damn, Primordial fire - Hold it - Ah...What do you mean Wow! Obviously split personality! Run! Hurry, you control the bull head Ok, I help you, go Ok Here you go Ah... Its smoking, hurry Hey! Hey! I can't handle this one... Shut up and go Ok ok, I get it. I will attack. Head on! Cliff Grab the horn Left turn! You let me do this. I serve you I can't hold on any longer! Hold on! Hold on, sister Em! Hope the ear won't break, we depend on it Sister I'm fine Don't act tough, come back to me and rest I thought I can only rely on the fire roller-skates to fly, how come you fairies can't fly either? Do you wish me to give you my fire roller-skates? Ah? Fire roller-skates? How come you have them? Ah Sorry Heartless. Shut up What a mess Look Be cool like a man My brother sent you? Yes Hasn't he always looked down on me? Calls my magic too cruel, too much relying on form Wow... - Shh - Em... My brother said, other people had honed their magic for more than a 1000 years, I can swallow it with one swift move, it has no honor. Sorry..it's just too scary My brother is a proud man, I assume he sent you to beg me because of that woman? Are you kidding, this is no ordinary woman, I...can be your sister in law soon, You cannot eat her! I respect you because you have sworn brotherhood with my brother. Monkey King, you have a silver tongue, but I am no foolish woman, Don't fool me How could my brother marry a god? Because your brother wants to immigrate, marrying her will grant him a green card in heaven! Longevity Monk, you are only food to me, You don't get to speak here. Thank you so much... You have finally made me realize that I am a piece of food on this planet, not from mars! Are you messing with me Don't be mad, if you are upset, we can leave on our own Nobody leaves until I say so Bring it on Oh? A different person? Yes, I am her sister Qingxia Split personality, is a gynecological disease! Are you alright? It's the fog I happened to ate a double heads snake for breakfast, Let's see if I can digest your split personality too. I'm not afraid I'll be waiting You scared me, I thought you died Come...I hold you For you, I will never die Yes, we shall only die in happiness! But we cannot be together Why? You must be with someone else, you cannot fall in love with me! Nonono, you have to be more clear Typical relationship struggle, love without admission, simply called ineffable difficulties. One more word I will stab you not only with pipa, but with a knife! Tell me what ineffable difficulty could you possibly have? Say it I used the moonlight box go to future to see our ending ah.. I will die you become alone like a dog so poor Everybody dies, if all lovers over think like you do, the world will filled with despair No more matchmaking. But the more we go on right now, the more sad memories you will have later I'm not worried, I know King Bull has the moonlight box, we can steal it together, then we run off. Even if we cannot escape fate, we would have lived to the fullest. Life happens only once, you shouldn't miss it! You are too lovely. This is the token that proves my adulthood, you had it made for me, I have carried it with me at all times. I came today, not because I have something to ask of you, I am here to admit my mistake! Are you crazy? Coming here to apologize? Yes, I am crazy! I am terminally ill with my obsession to my first love. I never thought my first true love will occur after marriage. Since I met Zixia, I have learned what is true love, I have learned how lonely you must have been for the last 100 years. What's the use of it now, Mantis will not come back to life. Mantis's nature is to eat his love companion, He would have eaten you if I did not kill him! So what! He was my true love, I'd rather be eaten by him, than being here all alone, like a living dead! There is no such thing as one true love of your life He is only singing, not talking, leave him be. There is such thing as one true love, and it is sang into a song. "The past cannot be undone..." "Red Leaves fall into the dirt" "The beginning and the end are fated" "You fly with the clouds..." "Ocean of despair..." "Turns the tide of love and hate" "No one escapes fate in this world..." "To love, but not to be together..." "Or I should believe in karma!" Dare to seduce your big brother's wife? I will hit... Two men kissing? Xiang Xiang... brother Brother, hear me out... Brother, let me explain, Last time Xiang Xiang drooled over someone, was 100 years ago when she fell in love with Mantis. Looking at her now, I think she is in love with you! But it was those two who kissed, Couldn't she be in love with the Longevity Monk? No, Longevity Monk is only food to Xiang Xiang. - May the Buddha preserve us! -May the Buddha preserve us Ok then I'm out Please you... Xiang Xiang is 180 years old, and still single, since she likes you so much, then as her big brother, I shall approve this union, Haha, so it is decided. Did not know you have a soft side Of course! Zixia, honestly speaking I am no expert for love Just tell me, how to make you happy? You are hilarious. I kissed the Longevity Monk you don't kill me, but falls in love with me, even though I have been a player for years, but I have never met a woman who can accept me being bisexual. It was your kiss with the Longevity Monk reminded me of my first love. Xiang Xiang, why wouldn't you listen to me I said it. Girls should not go to school. Who says the girls cannot go to school? Stop, you! Come back here Wait... Come! Men at their birth are good in nature Men at their birth are good in nature Men are born about the same but habits make them differ. The classmates did not know that I was a girl, They felt that I was different. And I did not care how people see how I met and fell in love with Mantis! From that day on, I drooled every time I see him. Can't believe I would drool over you now... What a great love story, though I am a player, I could never steal someone else's love, I think you should go back to your Mantis. Too late, my brother, fearing Mantis would eat me, killed him already No way That's why I would eat other monsters, in Mantis's memory and to piss my brother off! It does not matter that Mantis died moonlight box was taken by your brother, go get it from him then you can change history. I get along with my brother just fine he has never been happier. If I do change history and return to Mantis I'm afraid I would miss seeing Zixia, then I would ruin his love affair! So there is no way I would want that moonlight box! Oh yah? Haha, such a nice girl Lucky me, Come along. Brother, what can I do to make Zixia Smile Come... Easy...Play a game with her How? Give me the moonlight box Here This game is call time reversal riskless game How? You... Come here. Plant a flower in this pile of bullshit, and throw it at your boss No way? No way? Then forget about making her happy Wait...You, throw this pile of bullshit at me immediately Huh? Ready? Ready Ready - Here it comes - Go ahead Seriously Yes Throw! Ah! I'm not afraid of you (Casting spell) Alright Isn't it fun? So close! Bullshit! Here it comes again Brother, here it comes Here you go! - (Casting spell) - Faster, faster It's alright, time has reversed Brother, will this pile of bullshit fly around all night? Not to worry I am very experienced at using this moonlight box I know all of its attributes Only making the bullshit disappear, everything will stay in the same form! Good for you! Alright Ah! Bullshit! Haha... It's alright, I go wash my face Haha... Haha...what else is fun? Your sister wants to play, wait a moment, (Casting spell)! Where did she go? Hahaha would you like to know? (Casting spell) My love for you is destined, you decide whether to leave with me Ok, Let's go! (Casting Spell)! Told you, he would not leave us behind Yes, (Casting spell)! What are you doing? He is seducing your wife, trying to use your moonlight box to run off. (Casting spell)! Escape with the moonlight box, I will hold them back Stop God is just like this Sister you must leave, hurry Follow me Cannot leave my brother (Casting spell) (Casting spell) (Casting spell) I will kill this monkey Do not harm him!! You saggy old lady, what do you care if I hit this monkey Then you wouldn't care if I hit your woman? She's my woman, of course it would be my business. He is not your man... wait..he's your man You get to play around, why shouldn't I? You bitch, Look what you have done Who are you calling bitch Yes I called you bitch, get out of my way Stop fighting all of you You shut up Why are you all fighting over a man You can for a woman, why can't I? Shut up, Who is he? He is your father's brother My business again? Ah, let me down You damn monkey, I shall forget about you seducing my wife but from this day on, you should treat my ex-wife well! You marry her tomorrow, and I will marry Zixia. Six Ears Monkey, your death is worth it. Because of you, the Sealed book will stay true. Because of you, I stay perfect as the Heaven of Emperor nobody would know about my mistakes in the Sealed Book The secret dies with you. I get it..haha Once Zixia dies, Joker will turn into the Monkey King and go on the pilgrimage. What happened? What is this? Six, someone rewrote the history, what's matter? Jade Emperor, You haven't been to the court for days, Everyone worries about you I have the flu, Need a 21 days quarantine, in order to prevent it from spreading to everyone That's not right. Sealed book said gods cannot be sick. But then again, My deified god has been coughing for days, Maybe the Sealed book made a mistake. Mistakes in Sealed Book? How could it be? You did not know how to write the word correctly that day, mis-spell your own dog's name, Of course he is coughing now You uneducated person. Why don't you go back and reflect on that? Then how do you explain about gods getting sick? Calling me uneducated! Six, you have to do me another favor, I promise not to lie to you again. You lied in the Sealed book, You lied about your promise to me I will never trust you again! Alright, Six, just this one more favor. I'd rather die! Then off you go... When you violated the holy law, I have already announced your death sentence I asked Guanyin to capture you, put you in the Great Oven to burn Now it is the third time. In the holy law, no one can be sentenced to death three times. I owe you two times, now you may go! After you left, nobody will take Joker's place as the Monkey King Protecting the Longevity Monk in the pilgrimage. Mankind will be haunted by evil, The world will collapse, your son will die. Are you sure about leaving? What did you just say? Nothing! What did you just say? I said nothing, you heard wrong Didn't you say that I have a son? You heard wrong, there is no such thing You are not going anywhere until you explain everything! You owe me twice. Say! Do I have a son or not? I promised that woman that I won't tell Say it! Okok, let me tell you. Do you remember back then When I sent you to protect the twin sisters within Buddha's temple lamp? What did I do wrong; Do I have to be born in the same image as you? Like I have a choice in this! You...that girl... ...twin sisters? You must be Qingxia Immortal. I am Six Ears Monkey, We are going to spend a lot of times together, let's be friends! You? Don't even dream about it. Is there a problem? You got hair all over you, like a rambutant, Go shave first Then come back hitting on me again! Because of what she said, you shifted into human form and give yourself a human name. I took your advice and shaved, named myself Charlie Chin You married Qingxia that day, violated the holy law just when everyone is about to execute you, I realized, you could be the substitute for the real Monkey King from 500 years later. Get in the Great Oven. So I made a deal and released you, but it is after you have left I realized Qingxia was pregnant with your child. Always a knock on the door when I reach the story climax. What again Jade Emperor, please save my sister What happen to her? We made peace with each other but now she is taken by the King Bull The Sealed Book was written like this, what can I do about it? You can... my husband, my son, my whole family are making up for your mistake, I already knew about the error in the Sealed Book, I just never told anyone! What? When you sent him to the human world that day, I overheard everything, he left without saying goodbye Because he never wanted to be with me, so I beg you to return my body to me, as long as you save Zixia, I shall end my life, I promise no one would learn about this secret Please, Jade Emperor. Your body is in the Misty Palace! Thank you, Jade Emperor! Why didn't she tell me that she was pregnant I asked her the same question! It is a woman's failure for not being able to keep her man! If I kept him tied up using the baby, He would only stay because of him, not me. I'd rather let him loose than making both of us unhappy, it is my way of loving him. I took away her body, and making her sharing one body with Zixia, sending both of them to the human world to hone their skills. As for Qingxia's child, I also sent him to the human world using Lady Spring's body, making Second Chief to take the fall. Using the moonlight box, I was able to send him to 500 years ago. One day in heaven equals 10 years on earth. Now he is a grown man, but with the holy spirit in him, anyone on earth can obtain immortality by eating his flesh. I always thought that I was a bird without legs, but in fact I have been a kite without a string. The so called freedom, has made me turning away from the ones I love. I don't wish to miss my second chance. I shall accompany my son on the pilgrimage. When I return, I promise to never leave you again. This time I will not ask about your mother's maiden name, nor would I talk about the nature of man and demons, We talked for so long, would you at least give me a response, It's basic politeness, get it? You finally have a response to me Bully, you sent a deaf-mute to me! The wedding shall begin... Hahaha... Seven color auspicious cloud? Do not worry, its dry thunder, not going to rain, see? Impossible Who are you? It's me! Brother Is it really you? Lady Bull, I am a changed man, Trying to keep a low profile these days, please behave! If you are truly my brother, Why wouldn't you turn around and face me? I made many mistakes, so I cannot face you. I had an affair with your wife, then with other women too, and then I made someone else took the fall for me. I have betrayed all of you! Yes! Told you I'm not the Monkey King!! How could it be, I have seen the end. Joker is the Monkey King, What happened? I have done so much wrong. Now I return, just want a chance to redeem myself! Monkey, you have returned! Master, I have committed great crimes. Fortunately Guanyin was able to show me the way Now I just want to forget about all the unholy desires of this world, I shall accompany you on the pilgrimage. Lord have mercy, you have repented! You stupid monkey, calling me sweetheart back then. Now you call me Miss Bull? Sweetheart my ass, you treacherous monkey. How dare you to ask for my forgiveness Brother! I use to leave everyone behind, but now aren't you also preparing to leave your family, and rob someone else's wife! And you, stealing other's husband, and you, believing your love with Mantis was so pure, and yet you have murdered so many. Now you are accomplice to your brother's crime. It is not you who are forgiving me today, It is I who shall spare all of you. Stupid monkey, today is my brother's wedding day, and you dare to interrupt? Stupid monkey, full of lies! How dare you to insult me like this! What are you doing? I was a thief, breaking locks come easy. Let's go save the Longevity Monk! Hurry You dare to hit my father! Turn! Save your toys and go back to school. Leave the real fighting to the adults. You damn monkey, we are finished! Magic Cudgel Let me finish eating this sweet potato, I need more carbs. Ah... Damn monkey! You dare to hurt my wife and kid! I will kill you! Bring it on Where you can go Monster... take the Longevity Monk with you... Ok Zixia! Let go, you baldy! Sister? Sorry, I'm late! Ah! You are the one with gynecological disease Brother Hurry, or we won't have time to finish this task pre-written in the Sealed Book. Let's switch clothes and identities. Brother, are you alright? Brother, are you alright? Eat me! What? Eat me, then your power till increase greatly Then you can beat the Monkey King No! Xiang Xiang, you are my only sister Give me the chance to redeem myself, my life for the death of Mantis No, no way Xiang Xiang, I have never begged you before, This time I really beg you, okay? Please, now I beg of you Ah... My Gods Today Monkey King will fight with King Bull to achieve the goal for the Buddhist scriptures Let's go to help him Yes my lord. Damn monkey, you have nowhere to run. This is no problem for me Damn monkey, called yourself a god greater than heaven, well I am even mightier and I'm going to destroy you! God soldiers Let's fight It's time Bulls, go to hell Damn you Zixia Don't come closer Monkey, I cannot have Zixia, so do you. All surround All surround Sister Capture! Here I come I am just like my sister, the one I love, is a hero who step on the seven color clouds, you weren't him before, but now at the end, you are him Rest in peace, you will be revived. I have made a deal with the Heaven of Emperor Capture! May the Buddha preserve us Zixia is now dead; Monkey King shall continue on the pilgrimage for the Buddhist scriptures with the Longevity Monk, The story now comes to a perfect closure. Brother, Master is telling you to stop fighting, - ok off I go. Ah. - Slow down, Master. Wait for me. Brother, I beg of you! Please...ok off I go. Hurry up! We are not even close to reach 1000 miles a day, Might as well forget about getting the Buddhist scripture. What's the rush, Where is he going? Master, you haven't gotten off the horse in three days, are you alright? My ass hurts like hell! Cut the bullshit! Hurry... Are you giving me attitude... Master, wait for me I will kick your ass if you fall behind again Brother, give me a break He is in such a hurry because he wants to be reunited with his family! Why are you stalking me? You promise to go on separate ways You are so annoying! Where you go, I go! One day in heaven equals 10 years on earth. Now that the Longevity Monk has obtained the Buddhist scripture to save mankind. The gods no longer get ill, even the deified god has recovered. The oceans are full of products, no more lovers committing suicides. The people are now enjoying healthy and joyful lives, death toll deceased significantly. The underworld gods are very pleased. The Longevity Monk restored his rightful identity as the Jinchan son, and now owns the title of Zhantan Benefaction Buddha. Husband, thanks to the mercy of the Heaven of Emperor, You may now take my sister's place next me as the temple lamp wick. Don't be naive, My guess is that he wants to keep a tight watch on our family, So on one would learn his mistake in the Sealed Book! Don't be so judgmental Damn it! Another mistake in the Sealed Book, What do I do? What do I do?