Of the world of spirits, in order to celebrate the birthday of the demon king, they use their blood and change it to a Bloody Parrot If you have the luck to meet it, it'll offer you three wishes to fulfill whatever you want Once Prince of Dian is preparing to pay tribute to the imperial court The thirteen caskets of treasures to the king all disappeared within one night The Prince is perturbed at the news and decreed Chief Guo Fan to search at once When you see me you'll get 3 wishes; and as long as you live your wishes will come true If you are that good then... then help me retrieve the 13 cases of lost treasures The Bloody Parrot has indeed recovered the lost treasures and fulfilled chief Guo's first wish The lost treasures have been found Bad news, master Guo died from falling off his horse Son... Give me back my son Give me back my son "The grave of my beloved son, Guo Jia Zhong" You really believe in such rumors? You really believe a parrot could bring your son back to life? I am highly responsible for the lost treasures and suffer the greatest suspicion too The lost treasures have now been retrieved it doesn't matter whether my son can come alive I believe in your loyalty and also hope your son could be brought back to life But... Don't let him out You can't let him out He's dead, he's a ghost now My son's come back to life You must be mad The jewelry is gone... Since those jewelry disappeared what might have been a tranquil time became a tumultuous period To lay their hands on this treasure martial artists tried to track down the Bloody Parrot They killed each other for this and hatred was generated Then hatred gave rise to more killings However the Bloody Parrot and the treasure remained a mystery Who are you? Why do you want to kill me? The Jewellery of the Prince of Dian Everybody says it's you... it's you "Dian border" "Dian House" Are you a ghost or a man? I am the one who's about to die and as yet not a ghost Who harmed you? It's you... Me? I don't know that What did you see just now? A streak of red light, shimmering over here Do you know what that is? No Of course you don't When that red light appears, the Bloody Parrot will soon appear as well It's just a rumour No, someone has seen it happen Who? Guo Fan Is he the Chief of the residence of the Prince of Dian who lost all the jewellery in a night? That's him Where's all the jewellery? You'd better hurry and leave the Bloody Parrot... Where's all the jewellery? The Bloody Parrot The Bloody Parrot? Who are you? Tie Hen Are you the famous constable Tie Hen the Merciless? That's me Who are you looking for? Guo Kan What for? He's Guo Fan's brother, the family's only survivor Only he can tell me where the lost jewellery of the Prince of Dian is But you're late What? Have you found out the cause of his death? He was poisoned Do I look like someone who uses poison? I don't think you would, but that's because he hadn't told you the whereabouts of the treasure Do you think I'd use poison if he had? Difficult to say What did he say before he died? Why should I tell you? Because, only I can prove your innocence He uttered 3 words What? The Bloody Parrot The Bloody Parrot? I don't believe in such a rumor I only believe that nothing escapes justice Cut it open You know your stuff, you should know what this is This is an anti-poison pellet and it is also the lost jewelry Since he kept it how could he have died of poison? Some poisons run in the arteries some in the organs; they don't interfere with each other There's someone behind this case His murder was to silence him Who is the mastermind? In fact if we could find one thing you could easily solve the case What is that? The Bloody Parrot The Bloody Parrot? It runs away so quickly Even if you caught up with it, it may not be a blessing Fate and death are out of our control I understand how you feel Since you entered the cult of the Six Fans 70 to 80 people have died at your hands I have never killed anyone unjustifiably Nevertheless, you have killed and your hands are tainted with blood You can't wash off your responsibility I can't figure out what you are trying to say The Bloody Parrot If you still regard me as your friend please send my body back to the border "Spirtual Tablet of Tie Hen" How did constable Tie die? He was poisoned What poison did he die of? I don't know Even you can't figure it out? As long as the murderer is a human being I could use whatever means to figure it out So the murderer is not human? No Sir, inside please Thanks Look Is this a tavern or a coffin shop? We only sell wine, not coffins So why is there a coffin here? That gentleman brought it here and insisted on putting it here My turn to toast Hey, what's inside? I'm talking to you My friend is in there Is he dead or alive? Doesn't matter, he is still my friend Do dead people drink? It's your turn, I'll drink for you He's nuts, what do you think? Kick him out When my friend was alive he liked kicking people He was never kicked he wouldn't like being kicked either though he's dead If I used a little more strength your hand would have become crippled The Bloody Parrot The little devil is dead... This parrot is called the little devil? Yes You thought up the name? No, a girl did The name came along when she gave it to me Who was she? I have always behaved myself all my life except once; And that cost me my life's savings But the pleasure and excitement she gave me was out of this world Where is she? It was only a whore house Which one? The Parrot Brothel What was her name? Xue Nu Xue Nu? Is a dead body in the coffin or is there silver? Doesn't matter He's got to be a nut Indeed... who else'd carry a coffin to a brothel He's gone up to Xue Nu's room She wouldn't like a nutcase Indeed, how could he compare with master Yian Miss Hong Yu Strange You are... Never mind who I am I want to ask you which lady are you looking for? Xue Nu You're a strange guy; using a coffin to put your silver There's no silver in the coffin You mean that's a dead person? All I know is he's my friend; it doesn't matter whether he's dead or alive You should at least know one thing What? Whether you or the dead person will stay behind What's the difference? If alive, then you'll have to pay, if dead, it's free Looks like I'll be the one leaving Why so impatient? If I don't go out, something on me will What? Look Night pearl? Now you can stay Why have you drawn such horrible pictures on the wall? I like to frighten people Fear is a stimulation and drives men crazy What are these devils doing? Celebrating the devil king's birthday This is the devil king? Yes You are my devil tonight Why is this parrot red? It has been formed by the devil's blood And the 13 monsters surrounding her are her slaves and called Xue Nu You want to be its slave hence your name, right? I only want to be your slave tonight All the devil's blood has been used up to make this Bloody Parrot & the 13 slaves? No, another 13 drops of blood made a stone which could seize one's soul in a wink It's called bloody rock Is this it? Bloody rock I could see the Devil King This woman is mine Bastard, scram Who the devil are you? Speak Bastard, you got my woman I'll kill you Are you okay? I'm fine. Very kind of you indeed Who is it? I'm okay, you may leave Who is she? My wet nurse Now I know the stone you gave me was an aphrodisiac Why did you say it was the devil's stone? Because the story of the devil and the Bloody Parrot fascinated me I don't like the story, and more so the picture Who drew this? I heard Han Gu Studio did that I'll get some white powder and plaster over it The Han Gu Studio's owner has been dead for 3 years and his shop has not operated since then Do you want to buy lime powder? You can still get it before I sleep Who are you? How do you know what I want? Everyone calls me roundworm It's no wonder then, that you know my thoughts inside out You want to plaster the wall and stay here But you wouldn't stay long as you might die before the wall dries Boss, some wine? Sorry... Who asked you to come and kill me? I did You're after my life? Xue Nu needs to do business she can't afford to support a man Why do you say this? I brought her up so she should listen to me I am past my weaning period Old madam, don't boil with anger This is the lime powder you want You want to kill me too? Yes Also because of Xue Nu? That was my intention You seem to have good skills and could fight with me Oh? But I must warn you Xue Nu is mine If she supports a man, that should be me You are not a better man than me Just marginally; your nose is a bit flat Now you really look like a gigolo I'm finished... Not yet If I cut you one more time, your handsome face will be ruined Get lost Summoning the spirits Lord Lao Zi of the Great Monad is potent and binding Summoning the spirits Lord Lao Zi of the Great Monad is potent and binding Cut off his nose, gouge his eyes and eviscerate him Summoning the spirits Lord Lao Zi of the Great Monad is potent and binding Cut off his nose, gouge his eyes and eviscerate him Take out his heart to feed the dogs This woman is a witch Even the people here are afraid of her Because her curses are efficacious It's just that she's not the one who wants to kill you Who is it then? Madam Li Why does Madam Li want to kill me? I never ask why So you're Gao Huan, the Long Sword? Aren't you going to fight? I don't want anything more to happen here Please leave the town immediately Who are you? Why are you dissolving the corpse? I am An Zhi Hao, the major of this town Because someone who is much higher in rank than I am and more famous than Tie Hen is going to be here soon Who is he? Lord Chang, Chang Xiao Chang Xiao, the Deadly Sword You'd better be smart and leave quickly Thanks for your advice But there's still something which I don't understand What is that? Who is Madam Li? Why does she want to kill me? She's the mother of Xue Nu Xue Nu Madam Li? Guo Huan is dead Pass on my order that Ye Ting Feng must be killed or I'll have to be rude Has your nanny been here? No, I fell asleep after you left Did you see her? She's after my life I've been here for only half a day and everyone here wants to kill me Wonder if there are any secrets between them that I am not aware of? Could you bring me to meet someone? Who? Madam Li You really want to see her? What do you want? I'll gouge out your eyes; see if you still want to see her Why don't you let me see her? She's a witch You'll never see me again when you meet her I don't want you to leave me Did someone move this coffin? No Tie Hen, I'll give you a proper burial Stop scaring people here Who are you talking to? Did you say something just now? That's right, it's me Open the coffin What for? There's just a corpse inside Apart from a dead person, fugitives, bandits, smuggled goods, booties... All of that could be stored there But... But what? If anything should happen after opening the coffin... What could happen? This person used to be very fierce he could become an evil spirit after death He could do anything Bullshit, open the coffin Yes Is he dead or alive? Feel him for yourself Xue Nu, wake up Did you see my friend inside the coffin? What about him? He's gone Look, the footprints... Blood "Peace Inn" Although they are not as experienced as you they are still considered experts even amongst you You'd better not hide anything from me Don't give me reports like those of Tie Hen's Get lost, I'm doing business here Get lost I won't allow this, get lost You cannot do business then Not letting you off easily even when I become a ghost If there were ghosts I would have died a thousand times and wouldn't have survived till now Have you found out the cause of his death? He was poisoned Poison or secret weapon? Don't know yet Cut up his heart yet? His heart too? Of course Yes Master Xiao I don't think you'd be able to find out anything There're some tiny needles in the knees Master Xiao The needles and poison have been made to be deadly This is a Seven Stars Lethal Needle You're right, sir The wound from the rock is the same as the needle's It seems likely that the needle came with the rock Yes A poisonous needle is found in the heart Bring it over Yes You're clever Guess you knew when I ordered the heart to be cut open that I'd find out about The Needle sooner or later; And hence you had no choice but to confess But you're not sly enough or you would have known that I was testing your ability How did Tie Hen die? He was poisoned What poison? Don't know I've read your report on the autopsy I know There's something which you should know I've re-examined Guo Kan's body Guo Kan died of the same cause as they did But why couldn't you find The Needle in Guo Kan's body Is Tie Hen dead? What are Tie Hen and you hiding from me? Are you the Bloody Parrot? Speak You should know my men are all good at inflicting torture You should also know that a man of my age won't live long I'm afraid you won't die so easily You haven't had the power to control one's life yet You can't die if I wish it to be otherwise Where's Tie Hen's coffin? At the Parrot Brothel It's been rumoured that Tie Hen has become a vampire last night and disappeared Disappeared? Zhang Tie, Lin Ping, you two stay behind Yes Show me the way to the Parrot Brothel So you are Xue Nu? Why didn't you move that coffin out? This is not mine Was it Ye Ting Feng who didn't want to move it? Didn't ask him... I haven't seen him yet today I hear he's gone to look for his vampire friend Maybe he's been killed by the vampire and won't come back - Wan Zhong - Yes Check the coffin Yes - Master Hon - Yes You & An Zi Hao go check the two officers' bodies and bring me the report immediately Yes My lord, the coffin has been opened twice it wasn't nailed secure since then Open it Yes Are you Ye Ting Feng? Yes Don't you know a coffin is used to carry someone dead? I do Then why are you sleeping in there? I don't want to become a dead man so quickly Oh? Someone wants to kill you? Yes, everyone here is after my life It may not be absolutely safe to sleep in a coffin You may actually suffocate & die in there It's lucky that a vampire has been here so nobody dares to come close Vampire? My lord, a Seven Stars Lethal Needle was found in the amputated arm of the dead officer The Seven Stars Lethal Needle? Are you sure Tie Hen is dead? I can tell the difference between a living & a dead man A dead man using poisonous needle to kill? You'd better go and ask that dead man Demon eyes sometimes appear in the picture So you covered it up? Yes Who's living next door? Madam Song, she's a witch Witch? Vampire? A demonic drawing? Ghost eye? Go, go and find that witch Yes Idiot Who is it? She's peeping See, she worships devilish idols She must be an expert in using poison No wonder those things stink Ask your men not to touch anything There could be poison stains Don't open it Master Tong, antidote Stop, stop fighting Are you crazy? Vampire Wan Ping... "lmperial Guard" All here? All here, Master San Here's a thousand taels of silver What can we do for you? To go and catch someone Who is it? Xue Nu That's easy, Master San, don't worry, go Wait, Xue Nu has a personal maid Her name is Hong Yu & her embroidery needle is lethal Be careful of her Better avoid seeing her Understood Go Go Tricked Go Hurry and go Be careful The skin from the seven of you is just enough for me to make a skirt Attack You are Hong Yu Set the formation Too bad your formation can't cover you from all sides There're some weak points Since when have you learnt to turn someone blind? Thirty years ago So you are the famous Doll Face Killer Needle Lady Hong Yu Hand Xue Nu over to me She's safer with me What are you doing here at the Parrot Brothel? She's been sent by my mother to protect me Move the corpse away You should know that this woman is mine I know Why are you taking her away? I just want to prove one thing What is that? A scandal at the residence of the Prince of Dian What has it to do with Xue Nu? Xue Nu isn't the daughter of Madam Li She's the illegitimate daughter of the Princess of Dian and the only survivor in the family of the Prince Dian What makes you say that? 20 years ago, I was a painter at the Prince residence Although I was a humble officer then I had the chance to get close to the Prince One day, I was summoned Chief Guo, the painting is finished, please have a look Wait, please The red bats originated from Long Zhou resided at the Cave, and were licentious This blood rock was made from the blood of a hundred thousand red bats Once taken, not only could one live forever one could be sexually potent The Prince is known for his lasciviousness He is also perverse in a certain way which I do not understand I've been trying in vain to figure this out A year later the Princess gave birth to a baby No one knew whether it was a boy or a girl because on the day the baby was born someone took the child away But before that, the Princess hung a piece ofjade on the baby's body And from then onwards no one in the palace ever mentioned about that baby It's weird that Xue Nu has got that piece ofjade; the same piece which the Princess left behind You shouldn't have told me that That's right, maybe I shouldn't have It's you You talk too much Why did you kill her? Death is too good for her what's to be ashamed of? Unfortunately we've got one lead less You're so unfriendly the first time we meet It's not that easy to meet you What do you want? You might be familiar with this thing It's Xue Nu's jade; also a token from the Princess to her illegitimate daughter What do you mean? I want to know who you are What if you knew? I still want to marry you You've killed so many people just for this There's one thing which you still don't know yet Undeniably I find you very attractive But as compared to the treasures of the Prince of Dian they are more attractive There's one thing which you still don't know yet I don't know what treasures you are talking about and I have nothing to do with the Prince of Dian Don't close your back door too early Your daughter is still in my hands Do you want to keep the treasures or your daughter? This poisonous dart will kill people in about six hours This hostage of yours won't help you much What a vicious woman you are! Xue Nu I don't believe that my mother is so vicious Treasures Aren't they the lost treasures of the Prince residence? Go There's a way over there Xue Nu So you are the Bloody Parrot who has been causing a lot of trouble In reality, there's no such thing as the Bloody Parrot It's only an illuminated lamp What tricks are you playing? Maybe you would never know even if you lost your life In all respects it's to be alive than dead You are digging your own grave You are... When I got involved in the martial arts world I no longer had any regard for my own life But I still don't get it what Xue Nu has to do with you What's the Bloody Parrot all about? There aren't many people who are not afraid of death I'll give you a good reason to die today So you are... I am the Princess of Dian He's Chief Guo Fan So you are still alive We have not been dead We've been using the rumours about the Bloody Parrot to make up a story about the lost treasure No one has ever seen the Bloody Parrot These have just been set up by the two of us This sword has a spring and cannot kill people You did this just to grab all for yourselves these treasures meant as tribute to the Emperor You can put it in whatever way you like I just love these treasures so much But you've made the Prince lose his life for nothing Death comes to us all Besides, he was a licentious old man No wonder it's said that women are vicious It's also said men are vicious Can you be at peace with these treasures? The two famous constables Chang Xiao and Tie Hen are dead What have I got to worry about? Tie Hen is not dead You should know that he's turned into a vampire Do you think a vampire is terrifying? No The most terrible thing is you failed to kill me This so-called blood rock supposed to suck one's soul is a secret weapon with poisonous needles I am immune to it When a vampire appeared at the Parrot Brothel I should have known that you faked your death But you are not smart enough Had you released my friend and gone back with me you might have saved your own life Thanks to me... Did you save me? It's nothing but a parrot Xue Nu, it's you