- Ancl so my friends, the shortest distance between two points is a straight line. So, I'll come directly to the point. Some of you will end up being ambulance chasers. Some of you may wind up in the Supreme Court, of the United States. Whatever you do, I warn you, don't become a law professor. If you do, the same terrible thing will happen to you, that's happened to me. At the end of every six years, just when you're beginning to get into your stride, and are enjoying your work, you're handed a reward. A vacation with pay, for a whole year. They call it a sabbatical year. In leaving you, I leave not only my students, but my friends. I shall miss you. Ancl you, I shall miss most of all. In the year since you graduated, I've kept in touch with you. It was a great joy to me to visit your offices, help you with your first cases. To sit in with you occasionally in court. Now for a whole year, I shall be out of it. I suppose you will survive. I'm not so sure that I will. Goodbye my friends. Bye to you all. J' Glory to our alma mater J' J' From your knees with pain J' - My boy, the only time a man should start on a leave of absence, is right after rigour mortar sets in. - Well, you won't mind it once you get on the boat. - Now that's what I dread the most. Paul, come home with me will you? Perhaps you can help persuade my wife, that we can have a wonderful vacation right here in town. - I would love to, John, but I've got a court hearing at 11. - Well, I'll go with you, perhaps I could be of assistance. - Oh no thanks. Your wife would never forgive me, if I took you away on the last clay. I'll see you off at the boat though. So long, Professor. - Goodbye. - Habeas, here's a job for you. Thank you, Habeas. - Jerry. Why have people continually traipsing around? Why's some other part of the world, more interesting than the part you're in? - You haven't had a clay off in seven years. You've got to renew yourself. - Now look, Jerry. Why couldn't I renew myself without going away? - No. - We could have a wonderful time together you ancl I right here in town. - Oh no John, if we stayed here, you'd be over the school every clay telling the Dean how to run things. - No I wouldn't. - Oh yes you would. Or you'd be at the office of your graduates, telling them how to run their offices. - No, I wouldn't. I'd stay home with you darling all clay long and renew myself till I was blue in the face. - Oh John. Oh, please now. Let go of me, so I can finish packing. - I will, if you let me help you. - Oh, now John, please. Go away ancl let me pack. - Where shall I go? - Go to a movie. They're playing Snow White down the street. - Well, I saw that Monday. - Oh, see it again. - Well, the theatre doesn't open until noon. Where will I go until then? - Take a walk. Window shop. Your pocket. - What? Oh. - Oh John. Oh, you've burned the pocket out of almost every coat you own. Oh now please, get out of here before you set the house on fire. - Yes, clear. Move on. - What's the matter? What is it Mr. Roberts? - Hello, police department. Somebody just threw a stench bomb in my theatre. You'd better send over a lot of police right away. - Tell Austin's to get pictures and the story ancl I don't want any alibis. - This is my brother-in-Iaw, Mr. Tom Ross. He's the managing editor. He'll do something for you. This is Mr. Roberts. - How do you do Mr. Roberts? What seems to be the trouble? - Well, I- - Well, Mr. Roberts runs the university theatre. He's the victim of a vicious conspiracy. Outrageous. - What happened Mr. Roberts? - Mr. Ross- - You know, you made a mistake when you signed up with the Theatre Owners' Protective Association. Ancl the moment he did sign up Tom, the other outfit started to make trouble. - What other outfit? - Well you see- - Well, the Theatre Owners' Mutual Aid Association, they started to throw stench bombs, but the first outfit objected, so, threatened by the second outfit. - Now wait a minute, John, suppose you let Mr. Roberts tell me his story. - But I don't wanna talk. - Ancl what's the idea coming here? - Because he insisted. I haven't anything to say. I'd rather have stench bombs thrown in my theatre, than dynamite bombs in my home. - Well, if Mr. Roberts won't give you the facts, then I will. I'm gonna see this thing through. - Oh, for heaven's sake, John, you act as that this was the first stench bomb that was ever thrown. - How can you say that,Tom? There was a panic in the theatre. People might have been hurt, maybe killed. - Well, what do you expect me to do about it? - Well, headline it, get some action. - At your age, John. There's nothing we can do about it. This town is infested with every conceivable racket. They pay no attention to the law, for one headline, more or less being tuned. - Well, something ought to be clone about it by somebody. Why this poor man... why, he's gone. - That's fine. Now, if you get outta here, maybe I can get some work clone. Go tell you a story to the governor's civic committee. Just drop in there. You'll hear about rackets, it'll make stench bombs smell like violets. - Where do they meet? - The State House. Wait a minute. You're not really going there? - You bet I am. - But I was only kidding. It's a private meeting. - Intimidation of witnesses has made it impossible, for the grand jury to get anybody to testify. Corruption ancl bribery have sabotaged this investigation from the start. The governor has threatened to call out the militia. Not only that, but I have information the federal government intends to take a hand, unless we show some results. It's up to you, Mr. District Attorney. - It's always up to the District Attorney. - What have you clone? The governor authorised appointment of a special prosecutor. Why hasn't one been appointed? - For the simple reason that I can't find anyone to take the job. - Can you blame him? What man in his right senses would step into a spot like that, when the District Attorney himself admits that he can't cope with the situation? - Gentleman. The shortest distance between two points is a straight line. I've been listening to you now for over an hour. Really, aren't you making a mountain out of a mole hill? - How did you get in here? - I walked in. - Who are you? - Well, my name is Lindsay. I am a professor of law. I think I have a good grasp of the situation. I'm sure that you don't need any state militia, federal men, or outside help of any kind. - I quite agree with you, but since this is a private meeting. - Oh, I don't mind that at all. New York had trouble like this and cleaned it up. Now, I'm sure we can do the same thing. After all, who are these racketeers that you've been talking about? There're a very low order of people from what I can gather. While you gentlemen, well you have everything in your favour, the forces of law, money, public opinion. Now, I'm sure that if you tackle this problem in a scientific way that you can- - Sergeant, would you kindly inform this gentleman, that this is a private meeting? - All right. - I'm afraid I was in the wrong. I had no business intruding, after all, I'm only a taxpayer and everybody knows taxpayers have no rights. - Oh professor, I'd like a word with you. My name's Eugene Ferguson. My son was one of your law students, graduated a couple of years ago. - Not Paul Ferguson? - Yeah. - Well, I'm delighted to meet you. - Yeah. - He's spoken to me about you great many times. - Not have as many times as he's spoken to me about you. He thinks you're the greatest authority on law in the country. - Well I think he's the best student I ever had. I predict a brilliant future for him in the law. - Well, that rates a drink. - Oh, I rarely indulge in the afternoon. - Well, it's almost evening. - Yes but your meeting? - Well, they can get along without me. If they won't listen to you, I will. - You know, the right man could step in and clean out the whole nest of them in 30 clays. - I know just the man, but unfortunately he's going away on a sabbatical leave. - You mean me? ' Why not? Well, of course, if you've made all your plans to leave. - Mr. Ferguson, I'll make a confession to you. I consider it no hardship to postpone my trip for a few weeks. - Two weeks? - Yeah. - Come now professor, it may take longer than that. - Oh no, no I wouldn't. - Oh, I know you probably look forward to your vacation for a long time. - Well Mr. Ferguson, I have an awful fear of an ocean trip. - Two more Emil. Of course, I don't know how much the job will pay. - Well, but that doesn't interest me in the least. The university pays my salary. You know, the mere sight of a steamer funnel makes me ill. - Well, I'm sure I could sell the committee. They've got to find somebody pretty soon. - I get seasick just thinking of a steamer. Smell anything burning? Oh. - We don't have to worry about the state militia, or the G men. I've just landed a fish that'll swim downstream. I'm glad to hear it. Or even we can't cope with the G men. - Kitchell, I've got a special prosecutor that'll fit right into my wrist pocket. Call the boys together and tell 'em we have nothing else to worry about. - Don't be excited. You've got plenty of time. - It's plenty of time. 1o minutes. - Mrs. Lindsay. Perhaps the professor is waiting at the house? - No, he called me at seven and told me to meet him at the pier. He was with Paul Ferguson's father. Said he was having dinner with him. Paul, did you see your father? - There's no one home yet. - Well, did you try the office? - He isn't there. All ashore who are going ashore. - Now, now Jerry. Don't be worried. - Oh, I'm too worried to be worried, if he isn't dead already, I'll kill him when I see him. - Oh, hello everybody. Oh my clear, I have a great deal to tell you. - Yes, I have a great deal to tell you too. - The most curious chain of events this morning. You know when I left to see Snow White? - Yeah, I know the wicked queen. Now you come on before they pull the gang plank up, you can tell me about it on the boat. - Wait a minute. Just what I want to tell you. We're not taking the boat. I'm afraid we're gonna have to postpone the trip. - What? - I've been drafted. - Mr. Ferguson, your father's in your office. He'd like to speak to you. - Oh, thank you. Hello Dad. They just told me you were in here. - Hello Paul. Paul, I wish you would consult with me before you accepted this position. - I wanted to spring it on you as a surprise. I thought you'd be tickling a bit. - I'm not keen about you're going into politics. - Well, this isn't politics, Dad. It's a job. A swell job. - It's a dangerous job. If you fail, it's a mark against you. If you succeed, you're a target for trouble. - Well, if you feel that way about it, why did you recommend Lindsay? - Lindsay isn't my son. You're all I have Paul. You've got a nice law practise and I can help you a lot. Ancl I think I can fix it with Lindsay to let you out. - No, no, no Dad. Listen, Dad, I have enlisted for the duration of this war. We're going to clean out the rackets. All of them, from the top to the bottom. Quiet, please. We're on the air. Take pleasure in presenting the newly appointed prosecutor. The honourable John Lindsay. - This is the first and I hope the last time I will impress you. The motto of this country used to be millions for defence ancl not a cent for tribute. There's something alien and un-American has come along ancl tried to change that motto to, millions for tribute and not a cent for defence. I'm addressing myself, not only to victims ancl potential victims of rackets, but to the organised mob of criminals, who have not taking over your government. I hope that some of them are tuning in, because I think we should all understand each other. The rackets started as petty larceny. Hey mister. They're big business now. - My name's Girard. - How do you? - What's the idea refusing install our slot machines here? - Why I told your man why. We have a high school across the street. This is no place for gambling. - All right, quit stalling. I want an order to instal some machines today. The racketeers pay their filings with their salaries. - Well, you won't get it. Now get outta here. - All right, come on. - You refused to testify for the grand jury, because you've been threatened and intimidated. Now, if you who are the victims of these rackets, won't cooperate by offering frank and complete statements, how am I gonna make any headway? I'm sure you wanna help. - Maybe we're not thinking of ourselves. Maybe some of us are thinking of our families. I've got a wife and two children. Last week, I tried to take out some life insurance. I was asked if I intended to testify. I was told that if I did, I couldn't get a policy. - Now what's the name of that company? - The Acme Insurance Company. - Acme Insurance Company. Well, we'll see about that. Mr...? - Butler. - Butler. Thank you. BrophY- Mallet. Gentlemen, these men are detailed as my bodyguards. I'll be glad to assign 'em to the first one of you, who will agree to testify. They'll act as your bodyguards clay ancl night. I'll assign two men to anybody else who testifies. Now, surely that should remove your fears. That'll do, boys. - Are you gonna knuckle down to these crooks, or will you help us fight them? - All right, gentlemen, you're excused. - Simpson, you have the names of these men were just in here, haven't you? - Yes, sir, I have. - You must have dug them up from uncler a stone. - They were the list given us by the grand jury. - But I want you to get me a complete set of their books, - But how am I going to do it? - Mr. Simpson. How long were you employed in the District Attorney's office? - Six years. - Well, didn't you learn anything? Every time I ask you to do something, you ask me how. - You're supposed to be an assistant around here. You know what an assistant is? One who assists. To assist means to help. - I know, but uncler the law.. - Are you trying to teach the law to Professor Lindsay? - No sir, but in order to get the book- - I'll show you how to get them. I'll have them here inside of 24 hours. - YES. Mr. Simpson calling. - All right, put him on. - Hello, Simpson. - Mr. Kitchell. They're going to grab the books of those witnesses. - All right, Simpson, I'll call you back. - Hello? YES. Thanks. - Who was it? - Simpson. He says a couple of Lindsay's men are out looking for me. What goes on here? - Oh yes. I took care of that. I thought somebody ought to tip Lindsay off, to get in touch with him. We got him his job. It's time we were using him to help us clean up some of the riff raff. Boys like Con Cronin and his bunch. All the undesirable elements. You know something? When we get this thing organised, it'll be a recognised industry. People will get used to it ancl the money they pay will come under the item of overhead, like insurance. You mark my words. Someday, we'll be listed on the stock exchange. - Well, where's Miss Ballou? - Disappeared. She must have left town. - Left town? I can't understand this. Whenever I send for people, they always leave town. How do you explain that? Do they know when I'm gonna send for them? - I don't know Mr. Lindsay, but we looked high and low for her. - Searched very inch of the town. ' Yes? It's Frankie Ballou. - Send her in. - Hello, boys. Looking for me? - YES. Have a seat, Miss Ballou. All right, boys, you can have the rest of the week off. Next time, I want you to find somebody, look behind you to see if they're following you. - The next time you wanna see me just call, I'll be right down. - Well, thanks for the tip. I'm a sort of a greenhorn in this business. - Oh, that's alright. You won't be in it long. - What's that? - I said you won't be in it long. Unless of course you start to get busy and prosecute some of those nasty racketeers. - You know, I'd really like to prosecute a few. Ifl could only find any to prosecute. - Intend to go after me? - Oh no, no, not at all, Miss Ballou. - Then what do you want me for? - Well, just what is your occupation at the present time? - At the present time I'm listening. - Yes, I know. But what is your training? What do you do? - A little of everything. - Oh, Jill of all trades. - Mistress of none. - Yeah. Have some candy. - Candy? Oh, now that's no way to get fingerprints. Wait a minute, let me see. There. There. If you want something, just ask for it. - Well, thank you, I'll try to remember. I suspect you're a very intelligent young woman. - I know my way around. - I don't, I'm afraid that's the trouble. - You'll never get anywhere chained to a desk. You know, if you're gonna throw people in jail, the least you can do is to meet them. - Well, I call that invincible logic. - I know where quite a few of the bodies are buried. How would you like a personally conducted tour? - I'd like nothing better. If you could spare the time one evening? - Well, how about tonight? - Tonight? What, you mean it? Well, I, oh, well it can wait. - Yes. - Get me Mrs. Lindsay please. Tell me, do we dress? - Oh no, most of the joints are informal. - Hello? Oh, hello darling. I'm afraid I have to back out of dinner tonight. ' Again. You break every night this week. - This will take a minute or two. Anyway, I'll have all to myself. - Yeah, yeah sorry clear. But it has to be clone tonight. Yes, well you must remember, I only have 3o clays. Every night you work. - It's most important. Well, I'll call you later. The best wife in the world, but a wife. - Good evening, Miss Ballou. - Two please, Jimmy. - This way please. - Hello. - Hello. - Who protects this place? - Con Cronin. - Well, we seem to be throwing ourselves, to Cronin enterprises exclusively tonight. - He's got the cafe racket pretty well sewed up. - You wanna see me, Girard? - Is it all right I buy the proprietor of the place a drink? - I don't drink. - Well, let's sit down. I want to talk to you. Baby, your nose needs powdering. - I get it. - Oh, by the way, that reminds me. I promised to call my wife. Will you excuse me? - Why certainly. - You've got a nice place here, Martin. I hear you make two grand a week profit. - I don't want any trouble with you Girard. I don't need protection. I made a deal with Con Cronin. - Oh, that's too bad. Too bad Marty. You got a nice place here. You know I'm in the wrecking business. I'll be right back, Jess. Hi ya Frankie. - What's the idea of patronising one of Con Cronin's places? - What about you? - I'm here on business. - So am I. I was just talking to Martin. - Yeah. - You know what I think, we're working this thing all wrong. Instead of taking the places away from Cronin, we ought to take Cronin away from the places. I think I'll hang around here tonight. If Con Cronin drops in- - You'll do nothing of the kind. We don't want any rough stuff here tonight. Did you see the man I came in with? That's the honourable John Lindsay. The man who's going to clean up this town. - With what? - With our help. - Listen, we don't need any help. - Or does Eddie. - Here he comes. Well, there's no answer. I suppose Mrs, Lindsay's retired. - That means you won't have to hurry home, huh? - The morning is ours. - Here's to a long morning. - May it be as instructive as the evening. Now I've learned a lot tonight. Thanks to you. - You learned practically everything I know, except the Big Apple. - Oh yes the Big Apple, you know, that's always been one of my secret ambitions. But I don't believe I'll ever get the hang of it. - Oh sure you will. You were swell in the last one. - Was I? - Yes. - Well, you know, someday when I get time. - No time like the present. - What you mean right now? - Why, certainly. Come on. - Oh, this place ought to be fun. - But you know, I really feel sort of guilty with John at the office, up to his ears in work. - I don't. Sorry you're the gopher, but this is going to happen every time he misses supper at home. Oh, oh Miss. Look Miss. Come on Paul. - How dare he? Research? - Oh Miss Ballou, this could be none other than my wife. Yes, and this is my assistant. Very much my assistant. Mr. Paul Ferguson. - How do you do, Mr. Ferguson? - How do you do? - Pardon me. Your table is right over here. - Oh, do you mind if we join you? - Oh no, no, no. Not at all. You sit right with us. We'll all sit together ancl have a nice party. Well, I didn't expect you here. - Paul. I didn't know the professor could dance so well, did you? - No. It's as much of a surprise to me as it is to you. - When now, wait a minute. Now I give you my word of honour. I've never danced the Big Apple before in my life. - Well he learns quickly Mrs. Lindsay. He took to it like a duck to water. Your husband's just full of rhythm. - So you've noticed? Cream? - Yes, just a little. - Hello, Mr. Cronin. - Has Frankie Ballou been here tonight? - She came here a little while ago. - Anybody with her? - Yeah. An awful hard looking ape. - Hello Frankie. - Well, hello Con. I want you to meet my friend, Mr. Lindsay. This is Con Cronin. - Glad to meet you, Mr. Prosecutor. - Well, the pleasure is mutual. We were discussing you earlier in the evening. - Yeah? My ears have been burning all night. This is my wife, Mrs. Lindsay, ancl my chief assistant, Paul Ferguson. - Ferguson? Any relation to Eugene Ferguson? - Father. - Well, well. I'm glad I ran into you tonight, Mr. Lindsay. - Well, so am I, Mr. Cronin. Won't you sit down, Mr. Cronin? - It's a pleasure. - Oh, it's fine. Oh, thank you. - I've been very anxious to get in touch with you. ' Yes? - You see, I run a legitimate business. All my clients will tell you so, but I've been having a little trouble lately, with some of these imported hoodlums, that are trying to move in and they're not gonna get away with it. Make a note of that, Frankie. - I certainly will, Con. Does anyone here have a piece of paper? - Yes, I think I have. - Well, this is all very interesting, Mr. Cronin. - You'd be surprised at the setup in this town ancl you'd be surprised too. Mr. Ferguson, I'd like to make an appointment with you in your office tomorrow. Well, I keep open house in my office. Anybody who wants me, walk in. - Con, let's dance. - I'd love to, Miss Ballou. All right, I'll see you in your office tomorrow, Mr. Prosecutor. - I'll expect you, Mr. Cronin.- All right. - Wanna take a tip from me, Cronin? Leave town tonight. - How can I do that, when I have a date in the criminal courts tomorrow? - Be a mistake for you to call on Lindsay. - Oh, I'm not gonna see Lindsay. I'm gonna see his assistant, Paul Ferguson. - Why Paul? - I think maybe I can get him to see the situation a little clearer than Lindsay. Understand? - Oh yeah. Yeah, I understand. - I wanna know where you dug up Miss Ballou. She looks like a Greek goddess. - She is a Greek goddess and she came bearing gifts. - Beware. - Oh behave. I've been playing baby face all night. - The trouble with some people is, they think they know it all. I know a little something myself. - A little knowledge is a dangerous thing, Con. - Not if you use it right. - I can't understand the sudden burst of cooperation. First the young lady and now Mr. Cronin. But I'll know more about them before another day's over. - Murder at cafe as prosecutor dances Big Apple. Big Apple. A murder committed right under your nose. No wonder we've had complaints. - Well, I assure you, Mr. Leander, it was all in the line of duty. - I think it would be more in the line of duty. If you made some arrests ancl got a few indictments. - Well arrest and indictments will come when I'm ready. - When you're ready? - So I couldn't get anything out of the witnesses I sent for, ancl so we seized their books, but every one of them has your erasures. - The very people we're trying to help, were the least inclined to cooperate. - Yes, we're not getting any help from the board of supervisors. We need more funds to carry on the work. Why aren't we getting any? - Lindsay, the reason they're holding up appropriations is because you're not getting results. - Results? - I think it's an outrage to put a man in a spot like this and expect miracles. We owe Mr. Lindsay, all our confidence and support. As far as I'm concerned, he's got it. - Thank you Mr. Ferguson. Now, if you don't mind, gentlemen, I have a lot of work to do. - Will you tell Mr. Lindsay, Ms. Ballou is here. - Go right in. He's expecting you. - Thank you. Hello. - Oh, hello Frankie. - You know, you're the only man in the world that could get me up at this time of the morning. - Oh, parclon my appearance, I've been here all night working. - That's what I call keeping your nose to the grindstone. - Well, it's one way of keeping your nose clean. Sit down, Frankie. Did you notice those three men who just left here? - Well, yes. - Acquainted with any of them? - No. - All right. You know Eddie Girard. - Eddie Girard? - Yes, think hard. I'm sure you'll remember. He was on the clance floor last night, when Cronin was killed. - Who was he? - Well, you must have seen him. - Well, as I told the police, I was dancing at the time and I always dance with my eyes closed. - Eddie Girard came over to our table last night, when I went out to phone. Now, what did he want? - He thought I was a movie star and he wanted my autograph. - Is that why you borrowed that notebook from Paul Ferguson, to write your autograph? - Yeah. Yeah, that's it. - Eddie Girard killed Cronin, didn't he? - Did he? - Now, you know he did. I know it too. - Well, if you know it, why don't you pinch Eddie? - Because I can't prove it. - Well, you can't prove anything by me. - Matter of fact, I'm not interested in who killed Cronin, but I would like to know why he was killed and I've got a hunch you know. - I think myself that Cronin died of softening of the arteries, how that slug ever got into him I couldn't tell you. Of course when it happened I was dancing. - Yes, I know. You were dancing with your eyes closed. Tell me this. Who's taking over Mr. Cronin's business? - What business? Oh, I see you've been raiding The Daily Press morgue. - Oh yes. YES. I spent a great many hours after I left you last night, going over these clippings. Ancl I was interested to find, that you were in several of these clippings. - Those were the clays I was the little girl reporter. - Yes, I see you had a byline, by Frances Ballou, an interview. And who do you suppose it's with? - Might be anyone from Einstein to Babe Ruth. - As it might be Eugene Ferguson. - He wanted to find out if I knew you or not and he found out. He's been reading newspaper clippings and he dug up that old interview. - Well, what does that prove? - It proves he has a hunch ancl so have I, Gene. He's a whole lot smarter than you think he is. - He's so smart, he can't get the board of supervisors to give him another nickel. He's on his way out right now. - Mrs. Butler. - YES. - I'm Mrs. John Lindsay. My husband's the special prosecutor. I wonder if you could spare me a few minutes. - Come in. - Thank you. - Have a seat, please. - Thank you. Mrs. Butler. I came to talk to you about our husbands. Well, I'll talk about my husband first. Now, I was very much opposed to his taking this job as special prosecutor, aside from the fact that it interfered with the vacation, which I'd been planning for a long time. I felt the job was a difficult and a thankless one. - To say nothing of it being a dangerous one. - Yes, but since he took the job, well, naturally I started rooting for him. - Naturally. - John has no political ambitions whatsoever. He's refused compensation from the city for his services, because the university is paying his salary during his leave of absence. And as soon as this job is clone, he's going back to his classes. That's why I came to see you. - What have I got to do with it? - A great deal. He can't very well finish this job without starting it, can he? And he can't very well start it, if the very people he's trying to help, won't let him. Like your husband for instance. - My husband has received death threats. - But so has John, but he's not paying the slightest attention to them. Why should your husband? - He has two good reasons. I'll show them to you. - Tom, I've got the books of the Acme Insurance Company right here in front of me. I'm convinced that they make a business of breaking windows, in order to sell insurance. Well, you promised to find out for me, who controls that company? - Keep your shirt on. I got it for you. Ancl you won't like it. 90% of the stock of the Acme company, is owned by Eugene Ferguson under a fictitious name. - Eugene, what do you mean Paul's father? You sure of that? I'll call you later. - Ancl will you call up my father and tell him I won't be able to have dinner with him tonight? Thank you. Hey John. What have you got there? - The books of the Acme insurance company. - Isn't that the company that turned Butler down when he applied for insurance, said he was a bad risk or something? You want me to go over these Acme books with you? - No, no, I'm quite able to go over these myself. - You've been up all night, John. You better go home and get some sleep. - You better get out and let me work. When I need your advice, I'll ask for it. - Hello, Paul. - Well, hello. Well, what did you do to your chief assistant? It looks as if somebody just proved there was no Santa Claus. Oh, what happened, John? - Well, I've just gone over the books of the Acme insurance company. They've been doing a terrific business lately in plate glass insurance. Every policy on their books was applied for by the client, right after he had his shop window smashed. - Well, what's that got to do with Paul? - Well, nothing only that Eugene Ferguson, happens to be the principal stockholder of Acme? - No. - Yes and he's in deeper than that. He knows Frankie Ballou. I believe she works for him. Now, this is the trail I've been looking for, but how can I follow it? Maybe I ought to ask Paul to resign. Maybe I ought to resign myself. I was a fool to take this job in the first place. - You were not. - Well haven't you been nagging me ever since to chuck it? - Not chuck it, finish it. - Well, how can I finish it now? The cards are stacked. Ifl go after Ferguson, it'll wreck Paul and I can't do that Jerry. He's like a son to me. - Hello? Who is it please? Oh, put him on. John, it's Mr. Butler. - Well tell him I'm not in. I broke my back trying to get those people to open up and not one of them offered to help. - But don't you think you shouldn't- - No, it's a waste of time. - I'm not so sure about that. - Yes, what is it? - I've just had a talk with my wife. If you can assure me protection, I'd be willing to come to your office and testify. - Assure you? Why. Mr. Butler, I'll guarantee you protection. Just hold on a minute. ' Yes? - Tell Paul Ferguson to come into my office right away. - The things I'm going to tell you, Mr. Lindsay will open your eyes. - Well, that's fine. Fine, Mr. Butler. I'm sure you won't regret it, but look, I'll send a man. The best man I have. He'll be right over to pick you up and see that you get safely to my office. Paul, I've just heard from Butler. He's ready to testify. Now you go right up to his house and bring him down here before he changes his mind. - Jerry- - Come on now, get going. - Come on. - Jerry. I've clone it, I've clone it. - Mr. Butler. - YES. - I'm from Mr. Lindsay's office. - Oh. He phoned you were coming. I'll be right with you. I'll come back as soon as it's over ancl tell you all about it. - That's the right thing to do and I'll be waiting to hear from you. - Now that I made up my mind, it's a kind of relief. There's a lot I've got to tell Mr. Lindsay. - I know just how you feel. - Oh, Mrs. Butler. - Yes. - I'm from Mr. Lindsay's office. I've come to take Mr. Butler downtown. - Well, he just left with someone from Mr. Lindsay's office. - Are you sure? - Why, of course they'd left just a minute ago. - John, Butler wasn't there. - What's that? - He'd already gone. Some man who said he was from your office had come for him before I got there. - My office? - Yes. - Why we were the only ones who knew anything.. Yes? - Say John, one of those witnesses who refused to testify was killed. His name's Butler. He was shot and thrown from a car. They just found him. - Paul. They killed Butler. How could they have known it? Why only you ancl I ancl Jerry knew that he was coming here. Nobody could possibly have known unless, unless. Yes, unless. My staff. I wanna see every one of you get in here, all of you. Get in here. Come on, hurry up. Now, listen to me. I sent Paul Ferguson to bring Butler to my office. Somebody got to Butler's house before Paul did and now Butler is dead. He's coming down here to testify. Now nobody knew about that, but my wife, Paul and me, until some stool pigeon in this office sent out the information. The grapevine started right here. Now one of my own staff killed Butler. Staff. Before I started this investigation, I should have sent for the street cleaning department and the fumigators to clean up the whole pack of you. You. You've got shifty eyes. Don't like your face, never did like it. As for you two flat-footed morons, I'd have clone a whole lot better to get myself a couple of poodles. You're all a bunch of blithering, double crossing, incompetents with hookworm. I don't know which one of you sent out, the tip that killed Butler, but I'm going to find out. In the meantime, you're fired, the pack of you. Come on Paul. - Hey, he can't fire us Brophy, we're civil service. - Yeah. - Hey fellas. The professor will be with you in just a moment. Would you mind stepping in here in this room? No, sure. Come on. - Hello Bert. Just the man I wanted to see. - Who were those men? - They don't know it yet, but they're my new staff. Fine youngsters with no strings attached, no political tie ups. People I can trust. I've cleaned house. Threw out that rotten bunch. The past servants of the people, kit and boodle. From now on, it's gonna be different. - Wait, John, there, isn't gonna be any from now on. - What do you mean? - I've just come from the board of supervisors. They blame you for Butler's death. They've clamped down on you. No more money. - They want me to quit? - Listen, John, a man's a fool to butt his head against a stone wall. You know, I want to help, but my hands are tied. - All right Bert. I'll stop butting. You have my resignation. - I'm sorry, John. I know just how you feel. - No, you don't. You don't know the half of it. Hello boys. - Hello. - How are you, Professor? Good to see you. - Well I dreamed of holding a reunion with my graduates, but I never thought it was gonna be like this. Well thank you for coming down. Sit down, please sit down. Gentlemen. The shortest distance between two points, sometimes a very rocky road. You know what I've been up against, since I've taken this job? Well, I haven't been able to lick it. I failed. You've all seen this headline, Butler was shot to death. Why? What did he do? What was his crime? Nothing. Who was he? He was just a man like you and me. He had a little business. He voted, he paid taxes. He had a wife and a couple of kids and he took darn good care of them. He was killed because he was going to stand up and tell the truth. Ancl I promised him protection, but I couldn't keep that promise, because my office was infested with an nest of stool pigeons. Ancl so I fired them ancl I sent for you. You were the best students I had, honour graduates. I brought you here to offer you that job. Well, that was a few hours ago. Since then, gentlemen, I have been fired. ' Fired? Professor? - Yes, but I'm not quitting. I'm gonna keep right on going as a private citizen. I took an oath over the dead body of Butler, that I would smash the system that killed him and every man behind that system. I'm gonna fight them with all the weapons I could find, they're own if necessary. Fair or foul, above or below the belt. I'm gonna lick them, or else I'm gonna wind up on a slab like Butler. But I need help to do that. I need you. I want you to come into this fight. Now, there won't be much money in it and there'll be times when you won't be getting any, you'll have to be on the job 24 hours a clay and every clay. Now I'm not hiring the staff. I'm recruiting a regiment. Ancl if you enlist, it's for the duration of the war. - Wait a minute, Professor. We, well, some of us can't, We're working. - Well, what are you working at? - What are we working at? What do you mean? - Well, you ought to know professor, law. - Why, we're practising law. - What law? The law is dead. I taught it to you, but it was all a waste of time. You won't be practising any law, until you bring the law back to this city. - Professor, you can't lick that bunch. - Their hold is too powerful, they're too strong. - Yes and getting stronger. Why? Because decent people in every community, say what you're saying. They sit back ancl they watch organised crime, eat way at the very foundations of their own government. They, you and I, we're to blame. Now, when are we gonna wake up? When are we gonna get fighting mad and call a halt? Why we live in the community, don't we? Some of you'll marry here. Build homes, raise children. Now you want this a place fit to live in. I for one would rather be clead ancl out of it than go crawling through life, taking orders from the lowest ancl filthiest elements in our social strata. I'm going to fight. Now how many of you're gonna fight with me? - I'm in. - Count me in. Well, that's fine. Now sit down, let's get organised. Paul, have you the list of the loan sharks with you? - Right here. - Now gentlemen, we're gonna need money to carry on this investigation. Don't worry, Tubby. This isn't a touch. I'm going to raise the money by borrowing it from the loan sharks. - Loan sharks? - That's a unique idea. How do you... - I'm going to make them finance their own destruction. They did a business of $2o million last year, so they must have plenty of money. I want you men to go out ancl get all you can out of them. Rig up your own references. - Yeah, but how are we gonna pay 'em back? - Well, don't worry about that. When it's time for them to collect, they can come and see me. Now, gentlemen, the shortest distance between two points is to have you boys help me pack up my files and records ancl get 'em out of this milieu dump. Come on. Now, wait a minute boys that table belongs to the city. - Good fishing today? - Swell. They're biting on everything. - Here's 100. - Here's 200. - 15o. Bless their little hearts. I don't know what we do without the clear little loan sharks. - Hello Bert, thank you for coming. - I went to work the minute you called me. You know I told you, you could count on me for anything, except money. - Well, thank you. Is he my man? - Yes, Inspector Gleason, Mr. Lindsay. - How do you do Mr. Lindsay. - How do you do. Well, tell me something about the inspector. - He's one of the men who didn't toe the line with certain people. So he was transferred to the marshes with the goats. - Good enough. Man after my own heart. - Oh, come in Mrs. Butler. How are you? - Well, I just came over to tell you that I'm moving out of the city. - Moving? But the business. - There isn't any business. They haven't given me a minute's peace, since my husband was killed. - I want rookies, youngsters who are just starting in. I want you to pick them, check up on them, organise them and hold. 'em ready for me until I need them. - John, please. - Oh good morning, Mrs. Butler. - She was followed by three men in a car. They're waiting outside now. I just saw them. - What? Jerry, call up Tom and ask him to send a report and the camera man out here right away. - What for? - Do as I tell you. Inspector, would you mind stepping out and asking those three men to come in here? Paul, you go with the inspector. - Hello? Hello, get me Tom Ross quick. - Tell 'em it's a scoop. - Hello Tom, it's a scoop. Now, I don't know what it is, but it's a scoop. Now, send a reporter and a photographer up here right away. - Make it two photographers. - Two photographers. - Wait a minute. Come yourself. - What's your hurry? - Come on in gentlemen. You're just in time for tea. _ Get going. - I think that's everything, Inspector. - Now, I want a picture of these three men. - Well, that's a waste of time. You can get their pictures out of the rooms gallery. - Yes, but I want a nice group picture. All right, boys. - Close in there fellas. Thank you. - Now, we'll call this one before. Later, we'll take another picture. We'll call that one after. Now gentlemen, there's been a lot of bosh printed in the newspapers ancl pulp magazines, which has tended to create a false impression, concerning the psychology of the hoodlum. They've been represented as men of desperate courage, exceedingly tough hombres. Well, I've always had an opposite point of view. Observe that they always come in groups, not alone. Observe that they always come armed with guns and other assorted weapons. Take note of the fact that it took three of these alleged guerillas to terrify and intimidate one small unarmed woman. Unarmed ancl alone, I'm sure that their actual courage is on a par with their intelligence. Nil. Now, with the permission of the district attorney, I'd like to prove this with an experiment. - It's all right with me. - Thank you. I'd like to have this experiment photographed in detail, if you don't mind. Okay. - You. Now it's my intention to beat your head off. Perhaps it'll be other way around. Anyway, we're gonna find out. Now, nobody's going to interfere. You'll be good enough to move that furniture back a little. I think we'll have a little more room. - Just a minute. Just a moment, boys. My fault. I shouldn't have turned my back on him. All right, come on. - Mack, this is Ross speaking. I've got a scoop for you ancl I want it on the street within an hour. Professor and one of the hoodlums are having a battle right now. After the professor gets through delivering a lecture on hoodlum psychology, he chooses one of the hoodlums. The hoodlum cops a sneak on the professor, while he's taking off his coat and knocks him on his divan. He's fighting furiously. This professor with his left, knocks him onto the desk. He picks the professor up and with a right cross, knocks him over into the corner. - Don't you think we ought stop the professor? - Professor comes out and misses the hoodlum, but the hoodlum didn't miss the professor. - John stop it. - Ancl pops him right on the button, knocking him into the crowd. - The professor carried back ancl the hoodlum hits him with the right ancl knocks him over into the French door. Picks him up off floor with a well put right, knocks him onto the desk. - Give it to him John. Give it to him. The professor's on him like a wild man. They're all off the desk onto the floor. - Finish him John, finish him. - Come on. Back to the floor. The hoodlum's on top of him. Professor grabs him ancl he's getting up with him. Professor might have bitten off a little more than he can chew. Right on the button and the hoodlum is out like a light. ' QED. - Huh? - Quod erat demonstrandum. Has been demonstrated. - Professor, can I take this one? - Oh no. This is my lecture. He chooses the next one, who shows no fight, so with a well placed right- - Get back hoodlum. Seeing that both of these pals around for third trying. - You've gotta hand it to the professor. I got a good mind to make him a proposition. Get him into the organisation. - Be a whole lot better to get your son outta Lindsay's organisation, or else wise him up and get some good out of it. - I'd rather throw the whole thing overboard than do it. - Sure. Your chin isn't out like mine. I'm the one Lindsay's gunning for. He's using your son as a sharpshooter. Why should I be the Patsy? He sweated Barrett and got Mrs. Butler to talk. Now, ifl were running things- - You're not, - Don't get me wrong. I'm only thinking of your welfare. - Don't worry about me. I ain't gonna lose any sleep over a screw ball, without an organisation, without any money. - He's lined up an organisation and he's found a way to borrow money. You know where. - By the way Gene, the Acme books haven't come back yet, have they? - What's Eddie Girard doing these clays? - Memorandum to Paul Ferguson. Advertised newspapers, asking all people who borrowed money from loan sharks to communicate with me here. Memorandum to Craig. Check on the list of photo dealers ancl see which of them instal the Kitchell car system. - Memorandum to John Lindsay, reminding him that the shortest distance between two points, is a straight line. You know, I've been trying to decide what racket I'd take up. - What? - So I'd get a little attention. - I have been neglecting you haven't I? - Being neglected is all right, but you haven't even been seeing me. - Oh, nonsense. I haven't taken my eyes off you since the clay I flunked you in them law courts. - Yes, now I'll never forgive you for that. Oh clear, if only I hadn't sent you out that clay to see Snow White. - Jealous of her? - John, you know, I went out ancl brought you a present today. - What'd you get? - You go and see, it's in that top drawer of that bureau. - Where, over there? Well, why didn't you put it in this drawer? - Now, you go see what it is. Come on. - What you mean now? - YES HOW. - That must be it. It feels heavy. What's this? - The next time you may not get a chance to disarm them. - But aren't you afraid I might get hurt? It's the closest I've ever been to one of these things. How does it work? - Well, you see that thing there? - Yeah. - Well, that's the safety pin. It's on now, so you can't pull the trigger. - That's right. ' See? Yeah, but when you push it down. - Do you mean like this? Look out. He got away. Jerry, get Gleason on the phone right away. I'll need a couple of his rookies. Habeas, you're fired. - Now, you chumps ought to know better than to bust in a guy's place without a warrant. - Yes, well you'll have to excuse the boys. You know, they were only recently sworn in. They don't know the ropes yet. - I guess you don't either. You're wasting your time and mine. I can prove by 40 witnesses, I wasn't there. - Where? - Anywhere. What's the pinch for? - Parking your car near a hydrant. That's a good one. Mr. My car is in the garage. Come on. What's the charge against me Mr. Lindsay? - I think this guy's got a gun on him. - Well, go on, take a look. - Well. Carrying the gun without a licence. - I got a licence. - Well, where is it? - There you are. - What's the matter with your hand? I suppose you shot it by cleaning this gun. - Yeah, that's it. - What's the name of the doctor that treated your hand? - There wasn't any doctor. - Well, who fixed up your hand? - I did it myself. - Oh, practising medicine without a licence, huh? Take him along boys. - All right. All right. On your way. On your way outside. - You promised me an exclusive. Now what have you got on Girard? - Murder of Cronin. Murder of Butler. Attempted murder of yours truly. We mustn't rush into print just yet, because I can't prove it. - Rush into print? You promised me tonnes of copy and what have I had? When do we open up? - When we close in. My new staff is doing marvellous work. They're accumulating plenty of evidence, but we are out for more. - But John, you ought to give the newspapers a little, they're yelling their heads off. - Well, let 'em yell. - The people are holding mass meetings, petitioning the governor, criticising Berry for working with you. First thing you know, they'll take it away from you. - Oh no, they won't take it away from me. Now, get away from that waiting wall. I've got work for you to do work. - Work? You've got most of my reporters working for you already. - Well then hire some more. - What for? - Now listen, Paul Ferguson's been checking up on Moss Kitchell. His office is a front. He gets together with his boys at his apartment. They hold a meeting there several clays a week. - What's there? - Floor plan of an apartment. - Kitchell's? - Yes and the one next to Kitchell's. Now look, this is the closet. Now the wall of this closet, is the wall of Kitchell's living room. I was just wondering if it were possible to plant a motion picture camera, in the closet of this empty apartment. - I get it. I'll assign one of my best burglars, to plant that camera for you. Not only a camera, but a dictaphone too. You'll not only see him, but we'll hear him. - Well, great. - Send Austin in here, quick. - Austin. See if he can shove it over now. That's swell. - How's it look, Austin? - Swell. They can pan all over the room and see everything. - That's fine. Now, I want someone to stay in this room 24 hours a clay. - Yeah, but how about some food? - Don't worry. I'll see that you get it. Ancl all the film you get, I want you to turn over to Mr. Lindsay in person. _ Qkay. - Gentlemen, this situation is becoming dangerous. If the people aren't protected by the law, they'll take the law into their own hands. I must ask for your resignations. - I'm sorry, Governor, but I refuse to resign. - In that case- - What I need is help now more than ever, Governor. - Mr. Lindsay, you've tried to do this job, but it's been too big for you. You've failed. - We haven't failed. We're all ready for the final push. We've tracked them down, every one of them. We know who they are and how they operate. We're ready to clean them out, if you'll just give us a little more time. - How much time? - 24 hours. - All right, Lindsay, go to it. - Oh, thank you, Governor. - John, that was a good bluff. But I do know who they are ancl just how they operate. Haven't got any proof. - I don't care. I'm gonna arrest every one of them. I want them all brought directly to my house. I don't want any of them booked, or taken to a police station. - But you can't pull people in without bringing charges against them ancl having some proof. - Are you gonna help me round them up? - John, I strung along with you all the way, but this is suicide. If you cause wholesale risk and then can't back them up. Well, we are not only washed up, but we're in line for criminal prosecution. - Well, I don't care. I'm gonna take that risk. It's gonna be a pleasure to rot in jail, ifl can drag a few of the swine in with me. Now, stand back. Come on. - We're gonna ask you boys a few questions. We want you to tell the truth, 'cause we know the answer. Lindsay is opposed to brutality in any form. You're not his prisoners, or his guests. Plate glass game. If you talk, Mr. Lindsay will make it easy for you. - Take your hats off. What are their names? - Joseph Miller ancl Alfred Harris, loan sharks. - Loan sharks in the kitchen. - Come on. - Hello? - Hello, Paul Ferguson? - Just a minute. Paul, it's for you. - Joe Smith, Jake Blackman, poultry racket - Hello? - This is Moss Kitchell. I know there's an order to pull me in, but if I'm pinched, you'll be the one that will suffer most. If you wanna know why, come around to my apartment and I'll tell ya. - Apartment 317, I'll be there in 10 minutes. - Bill Jones, Art Green. - Hello? - Hello Moss? - YES. - You don't have to worry about Lindsay. As I told you, no matter what he has on you, he'll never have a chance to use it. I'm taking care of that tonight. Ancl after Lindsay's out of the way, I'll see to it that Paul leaves town. Hello? - It was fixed to look like suicide, but it wasn't. Kitchell was killed because somebody knew that I was coming to see him. He was killed because he was gonna tell me something. That's why Cronin was killed. That's why my father didn't want me to work for you. That's why you wouldn't let me look at those Acme books. You wanted to protect me. You said this is a war. All right, everybody gets hurt in the war. - Yeah, wait a minute. Where are you going? - Tom Ross is in there. I'm gonna tell the world how my father's mixed up in this thing. How he's posed as a civic minded citizen when all the time he's been double crossing me ancl the rest of the city. My own father, the head of this whole slimy outfit. I'll give Ross a story. A whole chapter. - No, this is a closed chapter. - Oh no, it isn't. - Now, wait a minute. I'm still in charge of this job. If you're working for me, you're gonna take orders from me. - Well how come? - You've gotta trust me, Paul. You're not gonna say a word about this to your father, or anybody else. - Oh, you're wrong, John. I've got to get this out in the open. - Yes, yes, but not now. We're not ready for it yet. If those arrests be made today, they can be made to stick, yes. But if they don't, it's we who are gonna be behind bars. Now, go out there ancl work them over. Go ahead, break those crooks down. - Mr. Lindsay. - Yeah? - We've got it. It's just what we've been praying for. Why today's film will blow the lid right off this town and the record too. - Well, good. Let's run it. - Oh, Mr. Lindsay, can I see- - Not now, see me later. It's opportunity I wanna give you men. - What a story we're getting tonight Paul. - Yeah, what a story. - I wanna get my lawyer. - Oh, I'll get you a lawyer. The place is full of lawyers. Take him in there. You carry on Fred. I'm gonna make these loan sharks talking. - Coffee, Paul? - No thank you, Jerry. - Helen, coffee ancl sandwiches to the staff. Here's some coffee. What's the matter, John? - Sit down, Jerry. Take some dictation. The last will and Testament of Eugene Ferguson. Go ahead. I, Eugene Ferguson, being of sound and disposing mind and memory, and not acting uncler duress, menace, fraud, or undue influence of any person whatsoever, do make, publish, and declare this to be my last will and Testament and the men are following. - Is that all, John? - John, I've got to talk to you. - Just a minute, Paul. - Yes, that's all Jerry. Get it out as quickly as possible. - Yes, darling. - It's hopeless, John. We can't break them down. We've got to get those witnesses to identify them. - Where are they on the patio? - YES. Every man who refused to testify before the grand jury. - Yes, every one except Butler. Oh, I better see them alone. Gentlemen. I'm glad to see you here. The last time I talked to you, you all had Iockjaw. You refused to identify the racketeers, who were robbing you, and running your business for you. I'm giving you another chance now, to prove that you are men who will stand up for your rights. - John Butler stood up for his rights. - YES. Ancl I'd rather be in his shoes than yours. You walked out ancl left him to face the job alone. - At least we're here, Mr. Lindsay. - Yes, doing what? Waiting around for hardening of the arteries. - It's easier to talk, but I have a family to think of. - I tell you, there isn't anything to be afraid of. We have the headman ancl his assistant Moss Kitchell, was killed tonight. - What could will that do? Someone else will take their places, organise a new gang. - Not if we get all of them, that's why we can't afford to let any of them to slip through our fingers. There they are in there. All I want you to do is to identify them. Now we've spent nearly a year gathering evidence against them. I know they're guilty, but I need your help to prove it. Now, will you help me? Have I risked the lives of 25 young lawyers for nothing? Why, they gave up their careers just to help you. Ican't fail. I won't fail just because you're a bunch of white belly jellyfish. - Mr. Lindsay, we've been beaten up. Our homes have been bombed. Do you think we're gonna cringe, because of a few harsh words? - Well, how can I make you realise just how serious this whole thing is? - I'm not going to risk my future. - Well, there is no future, if you pay tribute to rackets. - I'm not ashamed to say that I'm afraid. I'm a peaceful man. Violence terrifies me. I'd rather pay than be beaten. - Even if we could face them, we have to protect our families. - But how? Don't you realise that when you pay for protection, you're not only setting yourselves up, but your sons. Yes ancl their sons too. - Gentlemen. I don't all together agree with Mr. Lindsay, that we have nothing to fear, but we do live here. We work here ancl unless we do something to clear up this tenable situation and make our city a safer place to live in, we're worse than the man he's asking us to identify. - Why of course you are. - I'm ready. Come on, George. - Good. - I'm ready too, we should have done this a long time ago. I'm with you, Professor. Line them up to one side. All right, men. Line them up over here. Come on you fellas snap into it. Over on this side. Hurry UP- - Commissioner if these men are identified, have them taken to the dining room. Gentlemen, I turned my home into a rat trap, for your convenience. Now, do any of these rodents look familiar to you? - I know this crook. I paid him money every week for protection he forced down my throat. - That's the man that smashed my window. And that's the guy that came next morning, to sell me plate glass insurance. That's the man who wrecked my laundry. - He handles a strong arm squad in the book. This one was wrecking my track, before I started paying for protection. - That's the man that came in with two other men and beat me up, 'cause I wouldn't pay. With me too. Wait till I get him in court. - This one held me and hit me like this. - Now take it easy Mr. Hay. That man drove a truck through the window of my store. - Miss Ballou, statement for the press? - Not tonight. - Thank you. - Hi Professor. - Hello Frankie. - What goes on here, revolution? - Yeah, something like that. The way they're bringing them in now, I'll have to get the ballpark for the overflow. In here Frankie. I must apologise for asking you to come here at such a late hour. - Well that's all right, I'm used to it. - Sit down Frankie. - You said you wanted me to meet somebody? - YES. Would you please? Miss Ballou, I want you to meet Mr. Eugene Ferguson. - How do you do? - Sit down Eugene. Oh, well, by the way Eugene, when I introduced you to Miss Ballou, I neglected to mention just who she is. Among other things, She's the lady who killed Moss Kitchell. - It isn't polite to contradict. But according to the extras, they're yelling on the streets. Moss Kitchell committed suicide. - Yes, yes, of course. But we know better, don't we? - What did you want to see me about John? - Oh yes, we'd better get down to business. The shortest distance between two points is a straight line. I have some very interesting film, which I'd like to show you. Ancl I think everything is in order. - Stop pacing Moss, you make me nervous. - What's all the excitement, Boss? You know, I don't like to come here. - Heard about this round-up didn't you? - Yes, what of it? - They're not gonna get me in it. I'm serving notice right now. I'm not holding the bag for anybody. - You won't have to. I don't care what Lindsay's got on Girard. He'll never be able to use it. - You said that before ancl he's still around. Even if you got Lindsay outta the way, what about your son? He probably knows as much as Lindsay does. Why didn't you get him out of there when I told you to? You're gonna knock him off too? What kind of a rat is he? - You shouldn't have said anything about Paul, it's dynamite. - Well, maybe it's time to use a little dynamite. - What are you going to do? - Call Paul Ferguson. - Cronin had the same idea. You know what happened to him. - Hello, Paul Ferguson? This is Moss Kitchell. I know there's an order to pull me in, but if I'm pinched, you'll be the one that'll suffer most. If you wanna know why come around to my apartment and 1'll tell ya. Okay, I'll be here waiting. You're gonna end on the hot seat, unless I get what I want. - What do you want? - Well, I want you to write me a story. Just the same as if you were still working for the press. - A story of my life? - YES. Beginning six years ago, when you left the paper and became involved in these rackets. Now, if I like your story, there's a bonus in it for you. - What's the bonus? - Your life. Of course you'll have to stand trial, for the killing of Moss Kitchell, but I'll see to it that the district attorney bears down easily. I'll guarantee you to save you from the chair, if you'll give me a signed story, that'll help bring convictions. - What about him? I won't write a line if it'll send him to the chair. - Ancl I promise you it won't. - You'll give him a break too? - YES. Not on your account. I'm thinking of somebody else. Yes, I know. - There's a typewriter in here and plenty of copy paper. - It's all right, dear. Go ahead. The story she's writing in there for tomorrow's paper? - Well that depends, you know, Gene, some of the best stories never get printed. Sit down. I wanna talk to you about Paul. He's a fine boy, Gene. He's on the threshold of great things. My leave of absence will be over in a few clays. I wanna get back to my classes, I missed them. I'll be glad to have somebody like Paul take my place. I'm gonna arrange with Berry to let Paul handle all the prosecutions. He can be the next district attorney and from then on, he has only one handicap. ' Me? - YES. Ancl your money. Now you've got an awful lot of it, Gene, too much for Paul to inherit. Have you ever made out a will? - No. Never got around to it. - Well, I made one out for you. Read it. You'll see that I left only a fraction of your estate to Paul. - What's this? A trust fund for a family of the name of Butler. - YES. I don't know whether you remember him or not, but he was one of my witnesses. He was killed before he could testify. He, I suppose more than anybody else, was responsible for the success of this investigation. He left a wife and a couple of kids. I've been sending them money, but I think a trust fund would be more proper, don't you? The rest of the estate will go to a fund, to carry on the work of this investigation. I can think of no better use to which your money could be put. - This will is dated a month ago. - Yes, I dictated it tonight, but I dated it back. Looked better that way. - I see I've appointed you executor. - Would you rather have somebody else? - No, I think not. - I'll arrange my witnesses later. I think you better sign it now. - You talk as if I were going to die pretty soon. - We all die pretty soon. yes we do. There are things I'd like to attend to, before the fun begins. - What? - I'll be around when you want me, the way you'd want me. - I'll trust you to do the right thing. - Well, it's getting pretty late. I sent my chauffeur back. I don't suppose there are any cabs around this time in the morning. I wonder if you'd let me borrow your car? - My car? Why, yes. Yes, certainly. Here are the keys. - Thank you. I hope Frankie's story will prove helpful. Good night. - Good night. - I gotta see Lindsay. It's on the level I tell you. They get the finger on him ancl all the cops in the world can't stop it. - Come along. - John. This man says there's a plot to kill you, before the night's over. - What? - It's true, Mr. Lindsay, I didn't want any part of it. They rigged up your car with a bomb. It's set to go off the minute you step on the starter. - There's a bomb in my car? Paul. - That's it. That's your car. Somebody's been killed. - Shut up. Come on. - Please Mr. Lindsay. They'll hang me for this. Gimme a break. - Shut up I told you. Take charge of this, man. I wanna talk to him later. - What was that? - Somebody planted a bomb in Professor Lindsay's car. - Paul. ' Yes? - It was your father. He just borrowed the keys to my car. - You gave it to him. You sent him out of here to be killed. - I didn't know anything about the car. - You killed Eugene Ferguson. - I tell you, I didn't know anything about it, but he did. Ancl he had courage enough to die that way. He had to go out some way, we both knew that. I left it up to him. What could I do? Hound him to the chair, put him in chair for the rest of his life and let Paul.. He did have courage, Paul. He just took the wrong direction. You keep on going and you'll go a long way. - I've got work to do, Professor. Thank you. - Oh John. It's all so horrible. It's all right, honey. It's all over. Professor, we sure did miss you. - How does it feel to be back, Professor? - Great, thank you. - Professor it sure seems like old times to see you again. - Think you can make a lawyer outta me? - Well, I'll try. - Thanks. - Ah, the old school. It's great to be back, Jerry. - Yes, after a nice long restful vacation. Yes, there's nothing like it. - Now, now don't you worry. We'll have that honeymoon yet. You just keep packed and ready. We're going. - Yes, when? - Well on my next sabbatical, - But that's six years off. - What, so soon as that? - Oh John. - You know, it's complaining like this, that breaks up the most successful marriages. ' John. - What's the matter? Oh look. - Oh, well you know, it's things like this that make the most successful marriages successful.