WITH MY BODY, THEY WILL RISE AGAIN IN MEMORY OF SOLDIERS WHO DIED IN THE BATTLE OF AUSTERLITZ, DEC 2ND, 1805 "I WISH I COULD BE MY OWN POSTERITY AND READ WHAT A POET WOULD MAKE ME FEEL, DO, AND SAY." NAPOLEON I TRIED TO BE THIS POET BY TAKING VAN EYCK'S MOTTO: ALS IK KAN! (AS BEST I CAN!) ABEL GANCE - What time is it? - Seven o'clock. - And the weather? - Foggy and cold! - Mr. Constant! - Yes, General! Why so glum? - It's your new hat. - What about it? You know it's your duty to break it in for me. Twenty-two inches… circumference… I have a sensitive head. Another two or three days of torture, and I'll be able to wear it. How tall am I today? Still the same, five feet two inches. Take a better look, you idiot! Two more inches. You're cheating again. - Constant! - Yes? If you ever write a memoir, add two inches. Five feet, four inches. Only you will have ever known my real height. What did the hatter tell you? It was chaos in the store! Everyone was crazy! If peace with England was signed, yours would be the most famous name in history. I don't need Mr. Poupart's opinion on my politics. Just the price of my hats. - 60 francs each. - No discount when I buy four? No, Citizen General! It's the size of your head, he said! Everyone wanted to touch it! I won't pay more than 40 francs! Or I'll go elsewhere. Theft! Why are you waddling like a duck? I'm breaking your shoes in, too! My head may be the same as yours but, alas, my feet are larger. - It's obvious! - Take this! For your feet. Hats off to you. Finished, Mr. Duplan? Just a few more seconds, Madame! My husband gets upset at all the men around me. Thank you! Leave me, gentlemen! The darling will finish off. Yes, Madame! As jealous as my husband. - Did he bite you? - Yes, Madame. That's a good sign for you. He only bites those who love me. - Then he pleads my case, Madame. - Not as well as you. - Madame's milliners! - Just a second! Come back alone tomorrow morning to do my hair. Go now. Talleyrand! Why do you bring me these crybabies? What's going on? The news is well worth it. Lord Cornwallis has taken great pains. The English are offering you the Treaty of Amiens. Signed by your brother Joseph on behalf of France. - They all signed? - Yes! England, Russia, Spain, Portugal, Morocco, Tunisia, Algeria, Turkey and Greece. For months, I've been working… pardon, we have both been working, for the fraternization of Europe. We're smashing everything, it's wonderful! Let me assure you that with this treaty, without knowing it yet, Europe is offering you the throne. At last! Thank you, gentlemen! Long live England and the reconciliation of the peoples of Europe, with the French Republic! You are suffocating me, gentlemen! I'm off to tell my wife. - Is he at a loss for words? - Yes, he's overjoyed! Paris is eager for peace with England. - Is it true? - Yes. - It's really been signed? - Yes, last night. - Ah! - My love… I almost have the throne. You know, the prediction of your witch in Martinique? Yes. It was true. Yes. As you say, darling! - Will I be Queen? - Even better. More than a queen? Anything is possible now. What's wrong? Aren't you happy? You love another. - Who are you talking about? - Your Italian. - Grassini? - She's returned to Paris. I know you love her. You know, yes, but my feelings stop at her breast. I haven't seen her in a year. Close the window and draw the curtains. Be quiet, you gossipers! Could Charlemagne have done better? - Four o'clock in the morning! - He summoned us at midnight. The lady is having the night of her life! Ladies, you mean. For he goes at night to one lady in particular. - Madame de Vaudey? - Yes, not counting Grassini. Hubert, apparently Josephine and Lydie. Let us sleep! Gentlemen, wake up! You must earn what the people pay you! To the King of England, Emperor of Russia, Sultan of Turkey, Shah of Persia, King of Bavaria and Bey of Algiers. I said Shah of Persia, not shadow! - How do you spell "Shah"? - With two aitches, General. Good, continue! Having raised France above all the peoples of the West, with the Treaty of Amiens, I have closed the temple of war forever. Hubert! Have Talleyrand prepare a treaty with Switzerland. It will cede all of Valais to us. And to prevent any discussion, tell Berthier, to have General Ney amass, 30,000 men on the Swiss border. Now. Your Majesty, France will never forget, that, England, by granting us freedom of navigation with the Treaty of Amiens, will allow us to compete peacefully. You! For the Sultan. Fear not, revered Sultan, with the Treaty of Amiens, France and England will evacuate Egypt. Ah, for the Bey of Algiers. No. No. An evacuation of Egypt could complicate things. I'll ask Talleyrand to reply. He'll know better what to do. Continue! Madame Caroline Murat and General Murat! Governor of Paris. Consuls Cambacérès and Lebrun. Miss Elisa Bonaparte. Mr. Joseph and Mr. Louis Bonaparte. Mr. Benjamin Constant. Mr. Palma. Miss George. General Bernadotte. General Lannes. Madame de Salle. General Augereau. What a family! Madame Pauline Leclerc. Greetings. - Have a seat. - I cannot sit here, Madame. You purposely chose a chair that does not go with my dress. Why do you hate my sister so? You know very well. Do you remember our night at the Treaty of Amiens, four months ago? What about it? Perhaps… A son! A son! Josephine, give me a son! His Excellency, Charles Fox, and Lord Cornwallis! Fox, Bonaparte. General, I cannot express the extent of my admiration for you. Is it true, My Lord, after the storming of the Bastille you said, "This is the most wonderful event in history"? I did and I still consider it thus, General. So the peace of Amiens is the second most important event in the history between our people. Glory be to you. My brief stay in Paris has but one purpose: On behalf of England, I greet, thank and embrace you, the greatest and most intelligent man of both countries. The duty of my office calls. I must leave immediately. I must tell you something. Do you know people are talking about you in Paris? Recognize your two victors, people, bow your docile heads. Pauline captures hearts while Bonaparte captures cities. Why take every comer? You do the same with women, except I'm not a hypocrite. All Paris is talking. I bought you a hotel, Rue de Courcelles, a château in Villers-Cotterêts. I've given you more jewelry than my wife. Instead of thanks, as your husband lies dying in St Domingue, you sleep with Lafont, a stupid little actor. Bravo! You're jealous. You don't raise the standard of the family with your reckless spending. But I support your businesses. I keep your factories going! - Oh please! - Let people talk! You can ask me anything. I don't care about anyone but you. If one day you look for true love, you know where to turn. You are the most beautiful girl in the world. Anything else, dear brother? No! Yes! You must leave and join your husband. - No! - I insist! Here, every woman is jealous of you. - Leave! - No! It's an order! Fine! I'll go, since it's what your wife wants. - He’s hesitating. - We must push him to… - Now's the time! - The crown is within his grasp. If refused, we'll go to Corsica. - I swear it! - Me too! Joseph, you are the head of the family! You must insist on it. Just a moment! I'll talk to him. Talleyrand works for us. Ah! My dear Carnot! I'm happy to see you. Why do you remain in opposition? Am I not as much a Republican as you are? I'm afraid it won't be the case for much longer. A statesman who governs, this has not been seen since 1789. Governing France, after 12 years of such extraordinary events, is no easy task. That is certain, but you are still a soldier, my friend, and that is your excuse for confusing governing with commanding. Do you forget, Carnot, that I have just brought about peace? Obtained maritime freedom from the English. Thereby saving French industry. I signed amnesty for 140,000 emigrants! Created a Civil Code! Have you forgotten? No. I also don't forget the Revolution is what put you here. France needed a leader. A military leader. Yes, a military leader. It found one. The people, alas, always demand strength in the aftermath of disorder. Nobody stopped you from using yours. You were better known than me. The Revolution isn't to be used for one's benefit. The Revolution is over! I criticized its excesses without changing its principles. I've not changed the colors of its flag. We must respect the Constitution. No constitution has remained unchanged. It is always subordinated to men, to circumstances. Besides, the name and type of government mean nothing, provided citizens have equal rights, and that justice is done. There it is. Your fiery sincerity and love for France. And I hope, you never have any other motive, as you face history. I'll need increasing strength and power, to keep Europe balanced on my shoulders. That, Carnot, is the real reason driving me grudgingly to, ah, how should I put it, absolutism. I know. And that's why, General, I ask you to withdraw from a political life that does not align with my principles. Whatever may come, I will always be your friend. As you wish, Carnot. It's dead in here! Let's have some fun! - He looks angry. - He's expecting trouble. Carnot has just had harsh words with me. Maybe he's right? Don't let him bring you down. What about my family? They urge me to ascend to the throne! Are they right, too? In these months of peace, nothing would please me more, than to renounce public life. If the Bourbons heard you, they would return. - They would hang you, Fouché. - You too, General. What do you suggest, friends? Well, you don't have full political authority, that's the chink in your armor. That's the instability of the three consuls system. You must become a consul for life. The last step before the throne. - Think so? - Yes. He's right. Better to negotiate with Europe in the name of an empire, than a tired, troubled republic. Use your genius and courage to quash anarchy. To them you are a most desirable ruler. Do you really think so, Talleyrand? I speak not as Talleyrand but as the Minister of Foreign Affairs. - The greater your power… - And by divine right! The more you can unite Europe, which, essentially, only admires strength. Napoleon. You know what our father told me about you before he died? I would save my life if only I could see him again. He whose sword made kings tremble. He who would change the face of the world. On behalf of the Bonaparte family: obey our father. The empty throne awaits you. Take the crown! We will be the basis of your new nobility. - What do you think, Murat? - Your soldiers will cry tears of joy! Very well. The empire, the empire! You think I owe the people a new sacrifice? Konarev! Plan an urgent referendum, for lifelong consulship. Do you know Madame de Staël? Too well! I received a letter from Madame Grassini. She sends you her best wishes. I was told you were beautiful, Madame. I was told you were polite! What are you talking about? We were quoting Cornelius about political instability and just as it has the brilliance of glass, it also has its fragility. To my mind, Madame, it is not glass, it is a diamond. Would you share your favors between General Moreau and my brother Lucien? With them, I only share my concern for your ambitions. What if I find you a little somewhere in exile, to allay these concerns? You are as good an actress as Palma. You're crazy, Juliette! Perhaps, but less than all of you here! Hypocrite! I saw you with Madame Récamier. So what? I'll tell your old wife! Thank you, I'm suffocating. They're all after me, like ants! Carnot, my family… - Constant… - Oh no! Not you, Benjamin. - I don't have any brothers. - Idiot! - Can you see me as emperor? - No worse than anyone else. With heels. - Is Madame alone? - Yes. It's funny. As I was coming up the stairs, I thought I heard a violin. You were dreaming, my little Corsican. Do you still love me? What are you waiting for? Close the window. REFERENDUM: THE FRENCH PEOPLE HAVE BEEN CONSULTED ON THE QUESTION OF NAPOLÉON BONAPARTE BECOMING CONSUL FOR LIFE ANSWERED WITH AN OVERWHELMING MAJORITY OF 3,577,259 IN FAVOR AND 8,400 AGAINST THE FRENCH PEOPLE APPOINT AND THE SENATE DECLARES NAPOLÉON BONAPARTE CONSUL FOR LIFE You're the scoundrel! You were to put your sword at 18 Brumaire. The 19th was a wall which broke all memories. - Even my gratitude? - Yes! I'll join the opposition. You speak like Saint-Just, but you act like Caesar! This anonymous filth. A parallel with Caesar, Cromwell and Bonaparte. - Did you write it? - Yes, it was I. I also hear you're parodying me in amateur theater with Elisa, in an indecent outfit! Yes. Why provoke me? To make you feel shame. You treat your family like slaves! I owe you nothing! You owe us everything! Fine. - You're Interior Minister! - A hollow title! All your ministers are puppets who cannot act. You know by suppressing freedom you've removed the most beautiful word in our language. I'm removing you from my life, and from government! I’ll sign the banishment papers now. Leave! Go! Come, mother. - He's crazy! - Go, let me talk to him, my child. Mother, you swore you'd never return to the palace. I'd like to tear you away from here, my child. I tremble for you. All this theatrical gilding scares me. Especially for Lucien. - No! - Yes! - You love him more. - Yes. Because he is the unhappiest. All those who do not rise with me will not be part of my family! Calm yourself! Calm yourself! Fine. - I will appoint him Ambassador to Madrid. - Thank you. Oh, how conscious of your appearance you have become! You even have a mirror in your office! Oh! No. It's Josephine's, she forgot it. It's true, I do look like you. But, mother, why bore yourself in my palace? Look at your daughters, they spend one million a year! Really? Maybe I should, too! On the condition that you give me two. - May it last! - Yes, it will last a long time. Why do you always rest your hand like that? Oh, I don't know, maybe it's to prevent my habit, of pulling the left sleeve with my right hand. You don't have a stomachache? I remember your father… Mother! - I hadn't thought of it. - Ah well! - Maybe you're right. - No! Don't worry. My little Napoleon! I have bad news from London and Saint Petersburg. Luckily, I've already taken precautions. For England and Russia, you still represent the Republic. It's the ideas of the Revolution they hate. The storms brewing against you will only abate once you take the throne. Indeed! Fouché recently claimed the opposite. Fouché? He was not well informed. Yes, I know. In fact, I intend to part with him. He's in everyone's shoes, including yours. If that's true, General, he must be very uncomfortable in mine. Your wit exasperates me, Mr. de Taleyrand. Not Taleyrand, Talleyrand, with two els. Two wings? I can't tell. Good taste is your personal enemy, General. If you could get rid of it with cannon fire, it would not exist. You're a thief. A coward. A faithless man. - With no faith in God. - Nor you, General. That's my business. I do not believe in God, it's true. But I do believe in you, when you're not angry. You always stand on my toes. You were right to say that Fouché is not to be trusted. He's blinded by his enemy General Moreau, and he doesn't understand England is everywhere, and is your mortal enemy. Moreau and Fouché, yes. I thought so. From this moment on… Fouché is no longer Minister of Police. I'll appoint Réal in his place. And Régner… to the Justice system. Don't be foolish, Taleyrand, idiot! With two els, General. Take them off! They're big enough now! I'll be on the terrace. You know I can't leave you alone. Go to bed! What's that? Alert the guards! - Over there! He had a knife! - There, in the bushes! I saw a shiny dagger. That way! Shoot! It's Cadoudal! Thank you, Constant. You saved my life. Go to bed. Leave me now. You scared me. I heard gunfire, General. I need to talk to you. Quickly, put on your usher's coat. I don't want anyone to see your real face. Give me a moment. You heard, it was Cadoudal. You are the living target of both the Royalists and the Jacobins. But England is pulling the strings. All plots originate in London. - Can you track the source? - Yes. We need to gain the trust of their head of counter-espionage, Sir Hammon. Of course, it will be no easy task. Méhée de La Touche! - Their famous spy? - He's locked up. For his life, I obtained this letter of accreditation and their code grid, which opens the most secret doors of their services to me. Magnificent! What do you think? - Did you draw this? - Yes. My plans to invade England, but not Ireland. They're false, of course. I made it so they will buy it from you. - Great idea, General! - Tell them that you, Frioul, usher of my private office, you alone know my secret hiding place. Put that away. And tell them you'll sell them all my military plans at a high price. Find out more about a plot by General Moreau, which Talleyrand spoke of. You're risking your life. It's nothing against yours, General. Keep the £50,000. It's yours, you earned it. These documents are fantastic. How many conspirators? Fifty. The most dangerous being Cadoudal. Three groups aim to kill you and restore the Bourbons to power. A brave Frenchman will come either via the coast or the Rhine. I won't let that bunch of assassins spoil all my work! I'll give you my orders for your secret police. Thank you, Frioul. Duroc! Sit down. Write. Surround Paris with posts and bivouacs. Shoot on sight those who come out. Garrison on the warpath. Day and night police march on the Seine. An army of watchmen on the Normandy coast. Prepare the carriages. I'm leaving tonight for Boulogne. Duroc! Madame de Vaudey will accompany me. Incognito. Please sit, gentlemen. Decrès, I confirm that England will never obtain any other treaty than that of Amiens. I will never suffer their bases on the Mediterranean. You had my approval for 2,200 ships and nine gunboats. Yes, Sire, it's a question of acquiring 150,000 men and 10,000 horses. - How far have you got? - Let me show you. This huge fleet is in construction in your arsenals, day and night, from Brest to Antwerp. Hmm. My compliments to you, sir. A thousand years of outrage to avenge. You have two months to finish. You asked me for a report on St. Helena, General. St. Domingue, will take the island from England as soon as possible. And since my boats are being seized… Write, Daru! I hereby decree, that all English residing in France will be taken prisoner. My fleet will be divided into eight squadrons. Two at Etaples. Be seated at the table, gentlemen! Two in Wimereux, for the vanguard and reserve. And, prepare the first appointments, in the new Order of the Legion of Honor. Berthier! Inspection tomorrow at dawn. I was waiting for you. Come, quick. Come here! I hear you're still seeing Eugene in Paris. It's to give your wife the wrong impression. Oh, my love! I'll be more at ease here. Oh, yes! What's this? It's what's left of my bathing suit. - Your generals took it from me. - What? - So they saw you completely n… - Well, yes. But I lost them. They know nothing of our love nest. You're scandalous! Sadly, scandal doesn't pay the bills. If you were more generous, I wouldn't need... Where are the invoices? Under your pillow. - No! - Yes! I warn you I'm in a hurry. You won't refuse me! I only have but half an hour. Ready for departure, General. But an American inventor has been waiting to talk to you for weeks. Again? I don't have time! Excuse me. I have been waiting six weeks for you to see me. But sir, who gave you permission? Well, I would like to show you something. You're the only man of our era who can understand me. I come on behalf of Livingston who signed the treaty, through which you sold us Louisiana. For 14 million, it's called a gift. A gift indeed. The Americans will never forget the addition of a new star to their flag. That's why I didn't want to give this to the English. What is this crappy boat? The means to conquer England. I already have hundreds, look! In the Channel. Sweet follies! Utopias! But this one will work. And headwinds, Nelson's squadrons, what can beat those? This can. Oh yes? Where are the sails, sir? Do you see sails, General? There are none. - Oars? - None of those either. Driven by the Holy Spirit? Steam. Steam? I can build a boat powered by a steam engine, that moves in any weather and three times faster. I'll present your submission to the academy. If your invention came true, it'd change the world. Yes, it would change the world. Your name? My name is Robert Fulton. You love France and I love your country. This would be the best way to affirm our friendship. Steam! Steam! See you soon. Indeed, why not? Take great care of that parcel, it contains a steamboat. I'm sorry, General, that I must bring you bad news. This is from the secret service. A note from English minister Drake to the Duke of Enghien. "It matters not by whom the animal is struck down, you must simply all be prepared to join the hunt." The Duke of Enghien? Mr. Fouché! Well, well! Your friend Fouché wants to win back his stripes. You seem upset, Mr. Fouché. The air is full of daggers around you. I see your eyesight is improving. General Pichegru is hiding on Rue des Petits-Champs. He met last night with General Moreau on Rue Montmartre. What else? As for the elusive Cadoudal, I know he's planning an ambush, to stab you himself tomorrow on the road to Malmaison. Since I am no longer Minister of Police, I have informed my replacement. So I am a dog? To be knocked down in the street. I will take the liberty of operating in a private capacity tomorrow, and Cadoudal will not escape me. But here is some more news, a report from police in Strasbourg. "The Duke of Enghien, residing in Ettenheim, gathers many emigrants there, including General Dumouriez." Dumouriez! Pichegru! Moreau! Three Republican traitors in the service of a windbag king! All three supposed friends of mine! Former comrades! What mockery! They want close combat? Fine! I will meet war with war. Mr. Réal, Minister of Police. Mr. Régner, Justice Minister. We've arrested Cadoudal's servant. He confessed that a young man, the object of general respect, was about to join the conspirators in Paris. The Duke of Enghien. Him. Enghien lives close to the border, he knows Mr. Drake very well. He must be the suspect prince. Take him as a hostage before Louis XVIII to ensure your peace of mind. Méneval! Put an end to these horrific attacks. Isn't he the grandson of the great Condé, and the Bourbon family? Who say your blood is less dear than theirs. Write! The Council, meeting in this very place, on 19th Ventôse 1802, before Talleyrand, Réal, Régner, ministers in office, decides: Order to Generals Caulaincourt and Ordener to enter the Duchy of Baden, with 300 dragoons, to go to the city of Ettenheim to take, the Duke of Enghien. A violation of German soil? With no certainty the conspirator is the Duke of Enghien? Let's wait until he is on French soil before we apply the law! It's him! I can feel it. If not, he'll pay for the others. I will instill terror, as far as London. Mr. Fouché. You will work with Mr. Réal, until the day I give you back your ministry. Because, in spite of everything, I consider you to be the best informed man in France. Gentlemen, dismissed. It's serious. Read my handwriting, is it legible? "Question the Duke of Enghien immediately about his alleged conspiracy, with Cadoudal and Pichegru. If his answers leave doubt in favor of the accused, I order his execution suspended." Now go, and keep me posted at my wife's place. Ah, check! Leave me! Two seconds too late. Réal had asked not to be awakened. When he saw your letter under his door... Two seconds too late! Because my Minister of Police wanted to sleep? You should have broken the door down, you idiot! No surprise that the court condemned… the Duke of Enghien to death after his confession. But… this judgment was to take place only after Mr. Réal had questioned him, on a crucial point. This is a crime that leads nowhere. More than a crime, General, it's a fault. - You advised me. - No! I advised you to have him taken hostage, not killed. Be quiet! I am destiny's plaything. I wanted to save him. Why didn't he write before? He did write, General. But I had found the moment inopportune, after the judgment. Why didn't you give me this letter before the execution? You ordered everything over by four o'clock. There is, what I say, and what to do, at certain times. If you'd given me this letter, I'd have pardoned him. Savary, you bear the greatest responsibility for this murder. Get out! Imbecile! A Minister of Police who doesn't wish to be woken, is a useless idiot! There are cases in politics, from which one can only escape through mistakes. Your four newspaper editors are waiting. See them. Gentlemen! All these conspirators wanted to kill me, and thus the Revolution. I had to defend it. The Duke of Enghien was plotting, like the others. Excuse me? I thought… I have spilled blood, and I may spill more, but not in anger, because bloodletting is a part of political medicine. There! Thank you, gentlemen! Ah no, Constant, too hot! - What is it? - You must immediately be crowned emperor. Then once you have a successor, the temptation to murder you would be removed. Fouché, no! A dictatorship under the title of Protector was enough for Cromwell. Lifelong consulate is enough to achieve your aims. We fought Europe, to forge republics, not to give it monarchs. To do the opposite would be absurd. In politics, absurdity is not an obstacle. You are defending your places as consuls at my side. - Oh, General! - Yes! France will accept a Bourbon if she is denied a Bonaparte. Emperor? With a republican army? Allow General Soult to respond. I am entrusted with representing the army. It is ready to proclaim you king or emperor, and sees this as the only solution for the French Revolution's salvation. - Impossible! - Enough. Thank you, gentlemen. General, the foreign ambassadors are here for the hearing. On my way. - What are those papers? - Of no importance. No secrets, Fouché! So it's war you want? General. What are you accusing us of? Your multiple attempts to have me assassinated! Buying my generals! The sordid drawings in your gazettes! Every wind from England brings only hatred and outrage! Do you want to adhere to the Treaty of Amiens or not? Six months later, your troops still occupy Malta and Alexandria. Do you want peace or war? If war, you'll have it! Until one of our nations is in ruins! If you have doubts about my views on Egypt, My Lord, I can assure you, yes, I have thought much about Egypt, but I'll not compromise peace to reclaim that land. That's not all, My Lord! The rock of Malta, is of great maritime importance to you, but is of greater importance to me. By holding it, you are violating a solemn treaty signed with us. For me… I'd rather you held Montmartre, than Malta! You think you intimidate the French with your weapons? You can kill us, My Lord, but intimidate us? Never! We just want to live in harmony. Then respect the treaty, to the letter! Or I'll cover the Amiens treaty with a black cloth. In the same places, General, from where you chased the people, where Henri III was assassinated… Henrietta of England poisoned, You have just made a serious affront to my country. Woe to those who do not respect the treaties. Ah! Mr. Dédouville, you will report the insults suffered at the Russian court. Write this in code. To Admiral Villeneuve in Toulon. Sit there! Nelson must believe I have new ambitions for Egypt. How naïve! Set sail for the south. Then hurry to the English Channel. If we can hold the strait for six hours, we'll hold the world. His Excellency, Count Dédouville, Ambassador of France. - Were they all in black? - All of them. So that little Czar Alexander, and his courtesans dared mourn the Duke of Enghien before you. Yes, General. - No sign of civility? - An icy silence. He wants to act the avenger? Him? A son who let his father be murdered by his current advisors. Even worse, General. Czar Alexander signed a secret treaty with Prussia, to split your forces between England and the continent. Duroc! Take my place! Write! Your Majesty, The Russia's mourning is an insult to our courts, which condemned the Duke of Enghien. You'd have done better to mourn for my friend, your father. None is more peace-seeking than I! If you want war, tell me frankly. Use the most cutting valediction possible. "Na-po-le-on." More memorable. I have the honor and pleasure of being the first to call you Majesty. Yes! Emperor? The title has been free since Charlemagne. We believe, Sire, that the new Empire's Constitution and laws are now ready. You know, the title of French Emperor is already on everyone's lips. They were waiting for you to act. You speak sweetly, Talleyrand! You did this yourself, Your Majesty. Myself, Cambacérès, Fouché, and your brother Joseph waiting at the door, simply assisted. They know not to search for rank on a battlefield, when you can get it in an anteroom. Let them in! I see you've heard? Right, Fouché? Duroc! My brothers and sisters will be princes and princesses, an annual allowance of one million. My civil list will consist of the proceeds of the Crown estates and an annual income of 25 million. You, Fouché, will take over the police. Duroc, I name you Grand Marshal of the Palace. Draft this decree for me immediately. Tomorrow morning, present to the Senate the report in which Talleyrand completes the plan, so that in the afternoon, my official appointment as, Napoleon I, Emperor of the French, will be done. Tomorrow? But General… Pardon, sire, it's impossible! In France, we admire the impossible! You, Joseph! Today, summon our uncle, Cardinal Fesch. Tell him I appoint him Grand Chaplain of the Empire. Let him go and treat the pope with obsequiousness, to persuade him to consecrate me at Notre Dame. Are you crazy, Napoleon? Pardon! Your Majesty! For 18 centuries, no pope has left the Eternal City. And Charlemagne... Pope Etienne came to France to crown Pepin the Younger. Pope Pius VII, will come to Paris for the coronation through seduction or fear. Even if I have to fetch him myself with soldiers. But you didn't marry in church... He need not know that. And if he finds out, the Church is accommodating. Everyone get to work! Every hour lost is another chance for misfortune. Constant! What's that? It's for the proclamation, Majesty! Don't grovel, my boy. Let me see! No! I'll wear this carnival outfit, tomorrow! After the coronation, have a frock coat made for me. Simple, with no embellishments. Next to your generals' resplendent suits? Is that so the enemy cannot target you? No. I hadn't even thought of that. But… You're right. - The frockcoat's color must be…? - Gray, clearly. Now that you're about to become emperor, it's no longer appropriate I be a lady in waiting. Perhaps… first lady of your wife's palace. It's already signed. So of course, you'll send Mademoiselle d'Avrillon away? Of course. Oh, my little invoices? Little? Balance for acquisition of Tuileries Castle in Auteuil: 150,000 francs. A folly, but delightful! - Four servant women. - There should be seven of them. - Nine domestic staff. - It's a very large house. - A reader. - To help me get to sleep in the evening. - Three coachmen. - Three? Indeed. You cost me more than my sisters do. But less than Josephine. This is the last time I settle your debts. It's too expensive, for such a cheap product. You know very well, Majesty, this is priceless. Unfasten me! Let's be quick. - Hmm? - Yes. Don't move the clock forward like last time. Oh! - Me? - Yes! Let me in! Open up or I'll break the hinges! What's wrong with you? I'm sick of this! Hear me? Her perfume! Enough! Do I listen in when you take lovers? I've decided to take my family's advice. I want a divorce! You hear me? What? Divorce? Please. Listen. If you obey me… You know I can't force you to leave. I have resigned myself to you. Do the same! Spare me this kind of embarrassment. Yes. - I'll obey. - Completely? Even to the point that Madame de Vaudey, be your first lady at the palace? In a few weeks, you'll be Empress. You know that by that time, we will never leave each other. - Yes. - Huh? I love you. I know all about you. I know today you changed your dress five times to please me. You know because you pay for them. Yes. It's true. I also paid your supplier and refused, to accept reduced staff for you. You, at least, you set the clocks back. - What does that mean? - Nothing. Serious news, sire! The Ambassador of England has left. The Treaty of Amiens is no more. If the English want to force us to jump the ditch, we'll jump it! They may take a few colonies from us, but I'll bring terror to London, and they will shed tears of blood. His Holiness Pius VII has just left Nemours. At last! I must go halfway, and meet him at Fontainebleau. So, it's war? First, the coronation! Forgive me, Holy Father, for ignoring church etiquette. And I, General, have even worse military etiquette. There is something, Holy Father, that bothers me. You crown me emperor as if forced to do so. You sit before me looking like a martyr, offering your sorrows to Heaven. But you are not my prisoner. What the hell, you're free as a bird. Comedian! I'm the comedian? I'll give you a comedy that will make you cry! The world is my theater! The role I play is that of master! And author! The actor owns you all: pope, kings, peoples! If I wanted it, you would just be a poor priest. Let me tell you something, sir. Your stupid robes don't impress me. And if you continue, I will tear them apart with my spurs! Tragic actor! Nothing is ready, it'll be a disaster! I'll get tangled up in it. Napoleon! Napoleon! A dress as long as the Empress'! Impossible, Princess. Protocol demands one yard less. Change it then! - No! - Napoleon! I refuse to carry Josephine's mantle! Me too! Officially, it's hold the mantle. Fine, but only if our mantles are… …held by our chamberlains. Very well. Sire, these are the symbols of power. Yes. You mean, the accessories of power? Good. Kellermann will carry the crown, Pérignon the scepter, Lefevre the sword, Berthier the orb, and Talleyrand the basket for the mantle. Mr. de Ségur, sort out the details and establish a protocol for me. - Very well, sire. - Another thing. As we will be at Notre-Dame, your son will be on guard at the palace. - Very well. - Isabey! I need seven large drawings of the main phases of the coronation. Garb, seating arrangements for my family, etc. - By when, Majesty? - I'll be in Boulogne for five days. When I return, everything should be ready. That's imposs... I'll do my best, Majesty. Pardon, Majesty… A rumor is circulating that your mother will not attend the coronation. Correct. Add her to your drawings anyway! After the ceremony, have David paint the greatest painting ever. More beautiful than Veronese's Wedding at Cana. It must be magnificent! Mr. Rémusat! Tell my uncle Pesch that tonight he is to secretly oversee my religious marriage, with my wife. Talleyrand and Berthier as witnesses. Also buy 14 horses for the cavalcade at 2000 francs each. No! One thousand, five hundred francs each! Show me the 12 young pages and Josephine's dress. Have the regent affixed to my sword and adorn Josephine's dress with the most precious jewels! What to do with this mountain of costumes, Mr. Rémusat? Put them wherever you can. His apartments are overflowing. The large lounge will be the artists' lodge. Tell me, Isabey… Here they are! Open this! Oh, it's marvelous! What a great idea! That's me! Is that me? I'm so little! But I don't have red hair! What about me? I'm not there? Josephine made sure of it! Madame, I wouldn't do such a thing. It's a scandal, she taunts us! Someone stole from me! I won't stand for such insults! Isabey, where is the doll? It was here earlier, Your Majesty, I don't understand. I won't go! - I've had enough! - Please! - I found the Princess. - It's me! - She squashed me! - You will address me formally! - I wouldn't squash a puppet! - See? She called me a puppet! Don't worry, Princess, I'll repair it. Come, my friends. At this very moment… their coach is stopping in front of Notre-Dame. The emperor, in purple velvet embroidered with gold holding the scepter, steps down from the coach. To his left, the Empress, gems sparkling on her white satin dress, smiling, she looks like she's 25 years old. Don't worry, Mr. de Ségur, continue. The emperor and the empress enter the cathedral. A hundred-thousand people shout. The Pope descends from his pulpit, and begins to sing "Veni Creator Spiritus". With both hands, the emperor touches, the book of the Gospels presented to him by the Grand Chaplain. And he replies, "Profiteor." With his hand on the Gospels, the emperor speaks. Everyone kneels. I swear, to maintain the integrity of the territory of the Republic, to respect the laws of the Concordat, to uphold the Legion of Honor, and to govern, solely for the happiness of the French people. This is the sacred anointing. The pope blesses the imperial accessories, and gives them to the emperor. First, the ring, which he slips on his finger. And then, the mantle, the hand of justice, and then the crown. The pope places it on the emperor's head. The emperor takes the crown from his own head, and places it on the empress' head. I thought the cavalcade in the streets would never end. - And it was so cold in Notre-Dame! - Frioul, close the door! I have very serious news. The Austro-Russian armies are marching on France. They threaten Bavaria, and are already on the outskirts of the Black Forest. Our secret agents are formal. If the emperor does not land in England within two weeks, he'll be in a terrible bind. We may have pushed him to the throne too quickly. - We must warn him immediately! - No. Let him savor his triumph a while, his rest will benefit us. And I need to think. It's freezing here. Frioul, make a fire! He's disappeared, lazy man! Here they are! Let's go to meet them. And… not a word of this! Mother Letizia! See what advantage I took of the pope? A feast of Church and Army. Wow! What a day! Worse than a battle, but I think I won. What a great performance! That's it! The curtain has fallen. It is to me, ladies, to me alone, that you are so charming. Pauline, did you watch the ceremony? Did you see the pope's face? When I took the crown from his hands and put it on my head myself? What God gave me, beware those who touch it. Oh, mother! What a pity you did not come! It was magnificent! If you'd seen how wrapped up I was, like a magot! It felt like we were at the opera. Joseph… If father could see us! - Ah, if only… - Yes, I know, mother. It will go on. I have never been so tired, I'll sleep well tonight. Duroc! Berthier! Ségur! Prepare the coaches. We leave tonight for Boulogne. - Decrès! - Sire? Read my last dispatch to Villeneuve. "Mr. le Vice-Admiral, I hope that you have arrived in Brest. Act fast, with my squadrons assembled there. Enter the Channel. England is ours. We are ready, everything is on board. In 24 hours, it will be over." How long has he been gone? - Two weeks. - And since? Every minute, our observers hope to see his squadrons arrive. If the wind is good, it shouldn't be long. Eh, Bernadotte? Soult, what do you think? - Mr. Robert Fulton! - Ah, Robert Fulton. Sorry, but your boat sank in front of the Ile des Cygnes in Paris. Yes. The academy's report presents you in a negative light. Since then, I have been developing a new propeller ship. It travels against the current at a speed of three and a half miles per hour. - Bougainville can attest to that. - Yes. Your ideas are good, but the academy rejects your inventions. As utopian and purely theoretical. As such… Look, I also designed the Nautilus. I went underwater in it myself. I managed to stay underwater for five hours! And I covered six leagues like this. And my torpedo! Here is the model of my torpedo. I can blow up an enemy ship 60 feet away. - I did experiments. - Yes, but without results. English ships won't dare approach. A gun hammer is attached by a long rope to a box containing 100 pounds of powder. It's still only a model, of course, but… if you give me a little time... No! That's the one thing I don't have. It's very interesting, but I have no time, to adapt it to my squadrons. Frioul! Hat! Your Majesty… I came to you out of confidence in the greatest man in Europe, but I was wrong, I'm sorry. I just hope that… Your Majesty will not regret it one day. I never regret anything! Goodbye, sir. Your Majesty, news! From a secret agent who traveled across Spain and France, without taking even an hour to rest. Admiral Villeneuve's squadron is in Cadiz, remaining anchored from fear of Nelson. What are you saying, Daru? That good-for-nothing is in Cadiz! Where he'll be blocked. What a navy! What an admiral! It's unheard of! Pitiful! He sacrifices everything as long as he saves his own skin! What the hell can I do, with people like that? Two years of preparation! A hundred and fifty thousand stranded! All these sacrifices, for nothing! In Cadiz! When we were waiting for him in Boulogne! Since we must abort that plan… we'll meet our enemies in Vienna. Berthier, write! My 150,000 men, stationed from Brest to Ambleteuse, will leave immediately. They will, in utmost secrecy, travel across France and Germany, for three weeks, to Vienna. But it's 500 leagues away! Yes! Yes! Shoes! Shoes! Take care of that right away, Daru! Listen carefully to what I say. The forces of Hanover, along with Marmont, will join Duisburg on September 29th. Behind Ulm. You, Soult… will arrive on the Rhine on September 24th, with your 40,000 men, preceded by the 22,000 horses of Murat's cavalry. There, you'll find Davout's 20,000 men, Lannes' 18,000, Ney's 24,000, Augereau's 14,000, with my imperial guard, and myself. Frioul! The map of Ulm! From now on, we will call our ranks the Grand Army. We leave for Paris in one hour! We'll surround the Austrians without firing a shot! Yeah, well, it'll be hard work! Where is the little corporal leading us now? - New Year's Eve in Vienna! - Who said we wouldn't go? VIENNA SCHOENBRUNN Generals, I must speak with His Majesty. - Nothing from my wife? - No, sire. Quick, Berthier, I have to make a decision. "Paris, serious reactions to the Trafalgar disaster. Economic and financial unrest demands rapid military success." Next! "People are rushing the banks to get their bills refunded." - The exact state of the army? - Cold and hungry. Desertions multiply, hospitals are crowded. A quarter of the troops are missing. That's very serious! Our position is very far away, 300 leagues from our bases. And many men are assigned to these long communications. A winter campaign is impossible, so we must act now. News, Marshal! From your secret envoy in Prussia, sire. Read it! "The immediate mobilization of 180,000 men, is decreed by King Frederick William." We must leave now for Bruenn. Sire, you already face Kutuzov's 30,000 men in Moravia, who joined a Russian army of 70,000 men in Olmeutz. - Our numbers? - Forty thousand. Against 100,000? No hesitation! But, sire, 180,000 Prussians will join them in two weeks! All the more reason to go on the offensive before, a Russian retreat impedes us. - A retreat by the Russians? - It's obvious. The Russians are not crazy enough to risk my offensive, without reinforcements. If the army learns the unfortunate news from Paris, it will fall to pieces. You must guard yourselves on all sides. If you want to attack, a French victory is difficult. What did you say, Berthier? You know very well that by appearing to constantly attack, I'm in fact defending myself. Ségur, write! Dear Josephine… Ségur… who's the turkey in her Sunday best? Marie-Louise. The Austrian emperor's daughter. I pity the fool who marries her. What was I saying? - Dear Josephine… - Not one letter since I left! That's neither courteous nor tender. From your great heights, deign to care for your slave, a slave who… etc. Sign off, my boy. Gentlemen! We leave for Bruenn immediately. Long live the emperor! Long live the emperor! General Rey! Have the footing here dug out to increase its steepness on the enemy's side. Strengthen it. We'll call it… Santon Hill. We'll demolish that farm… and use the beams to reinforce Santon Hill's defenses. Berthier! Tell General Saint-Laurent to advance his canons, as far as Czernowitz. Take a good look at this land, men. It will be a battlefield and you'll play a role. Bring me the exact topography in one hour. What are you writing there, young man? All I see and everything you say, sire. To establish the truth later. You'll have a lot to write in 48 hours' time. General Marescot! Throughout this area, dig out traps for enemy cavalry. Is that a château, Soult? That's where I set up my headquarters, sire. Château Austerlitz overlooks a village by the same name. - Say that again! - Château Austerlitz. What's wrong? It's exactly where I set up the headquarters of, my unit in Boulogne. What unit? You'll see. Retreat, quickly! I have them! Retreat? You said this would be the battlefield! I changed my mind, for reasons I need not explain. - What time is it? - Ten o'clock, sire. Soult, evacuate Château Austerlitz. Evacuate the château? It's dangerously exposed. I can already hear Lichtenstein's cavalry rushing towards it. - Where do you hear it, sire? - In my head, of course! HEADQUARTERS OF THE EMPEROR OF RUSSIA His Majesty the Czar will receive General Kutuzov. - Kutuzov! - Always Kutuzov! Strike this name from our conversations! - He's in there! - Let him hear me! I don't care. He was once a great man. Fit for a museum! General Weyrother, Chief of Staff, Austro-Russian armies, and Marshal Buxhowden! I think, General, that we should request that our emperor take command of the troops. We will relegate Kutusov to a subordinate role. Because we want to apply, General Weyrother's genius plans to the letter. Isn't that right, sir? Not exactly genius, but logical. Because my unit follows the theory, of the great Frederick's oblique order, taking Bonaparte's Castiglione strategy as an example. Well said, General. After a false frontal attack, I will do as Bonaparte would do in my position: Surround him by a wing to force him to fight on two fronts, so as to cut him off from the road to Vienna, push him back into Bohemia, defeated, and definitively isolated, from his forces in Austria and Italy. Magnificent! His Majesty awaits Prince Dolgorukov and his staff! Let's get to work! Let's evaluate the forces on site. I accept command of the army. His Majesty Francis II, Emperor of Austria! We've decided, Majesty, that General Weyrother will prepare the battle plans. And, if you permit it, I shall lead our armies. You'll stay close to me. Write quickly! Here is the Lichtenstein cavalry. General Kutusov! Time is of the essence, gentlemen. His Majesty Francis II and myself, would like to know your feelings, about an immediate offensive. Our experience advises an evacuation of Olmeutz, to a stronger place, and to move our armies back 20 leagues. Why should we flee, General? No, Majesty, we do not flee, but retreat, which will allow us to await reinforcement, from His Majesty the King of Prussia's 300,000 men. What if Napoleon comes after us? No, he won't dare leave his headquarters. He's far too cunning, he must be careful. - He has only 40,000 men, Majesty. - How many do we have? A little over 100,000, Your Majesty. Two against one, and yet you are afraid? You don't know him, then? Let us not face a possible defeat. Do not laugh at our greatest warrior! His Majesty courts too much risk here. He should be in St. Petersburg, among his people. Prince Bagration questions the courage of our Czar! My mind is made up. Definitively. Let me prove to you, Your Majesty, that you were right to trust us. Letting me attack Marshal Soult's French cavalry, before Vyskov with my 3,000 horses tomorrow. We shall gladly attend, this prologue to our personal operations. Isn't that right, Francis? - Savary! - Yes. Has the emperor lost his mind? He knows there's only one detachment in Vyskov, yet they have no reinforcements or orders to retreat, attacked by this pretentious little Dolgorukov's 3,000 horses. Sire, look at Soult, he is weeping with fury! You cannot let this detachment of the 4th line be crushed! These are my men, sire. I don't understand you. Let me counterattack and cover them with my artillery! Just 500 riders, and I'll take them all back to Siberia in an ambulance! - But sire... - Since when do I need advice? The battle hasn't begun. I eschew the appetizer. - Allow us, Sire… - Be quiet! You are children! My brave friend! I simply wanted to prove to Your Majesty, to beat Napoleon, we only have to approach bravely. If I had any doubts about our immediate offensive, you destroyed them! Your Majesty! I'm ordered to announce the surrender of your troops in Vyskov. How many dead? Unknown. Perhaps 200. How many prisoners? Four officers and 100 cavalrymen. I've never seen such indifference. So? You want our lines to fall back? Yes! We absolutely must retreat. Davout and Bernadotte are still too far away. Savary, write! To His Majesty Alexander I… I send General Savary to compliment him on his joining the army. And kindly request a meeting to discuss an eventual armistice. Furthermore, may God… etc. He must be sick. What he's doing is insane. Speak with Larey, his doctor. - General Morlan… - Very well. Accountant General… Commissary General… Marshal Bessières. Thuillard, Chief Postmaster. What's this? No napkins, this is war! Oh for goodness sake! General Savary! Remove his blindfold! No! I do not accept a personal meeting with your master, General. But I agree to send him a delegate, Prince Dolgorukov. General Kutuzov. Przybyszewski. Didn't I tell you that the day Bonaparte was afraid, he would be lost? If he doesn't accept our terms, we attack! Let's not miss the opportunity. Sire! Sire! Both emperors are in Austerlitz. Marshal Soult evacuated without losses. Murat! Deploy a few hundred Mamluks in front of our lines. As soon as they see the Russian cavalry, fall back hastily, feigning the greatest terror. Leave them prisoners. - Mamluks do not flee! - Do what you must! But make it seem there's panic in our ranks. Let them think I plan to retreat. Sire! His Majesty Alexander prefers not to speak with you. He asks you to meet his envoy, Prince Dolgorukov. I'll go. It's out of range of our canons. You can't put your life on the line to talk to that twerp? My eagerness will increase my enemy's presumption. He'll think me ready to do anything for an armistice! General Exelmans! Go with him, you'll answer for his life. My life for his! - Berthier! - Sire? Watch me with a spyglass. If at the end of the meeting, I raise my arm, have my proclamation read aloud everywhere, so Dolgorukov may repeat it to his emperors. What proclamation? Savary, write! Soldiers, The Russian army wishes to avenge the shameful surrender of Austria at Ulm. But, we occupy formidable positions, and by marching to my right, they expose their flank! You disclose your plans before battle? Why do you want the enemy to know? You are not a psychologist, Lannes. Though I disclose my plans, they won't believe it, and will have the opposite response. Excellent! Soldiers, This victory, will end the campaign, and the peace treaty I sign will be worthy of you, and my people! Since you have been appointed by Alexander I… will you tell me the Russian conditions for peace? The new European balance demands, you leave the country, General. I am the emperor, not a General, mister. And I am not a "mister". I am a prince and private advisor to His Majesty Alexander I, Czar of Russia. All of Russia? I could take some from him. If you wish immediate peace, you must abandon, Italy, Belgium, Savoy, Piemont… that we may establish bastions there. You must leave! Scoundrel! You have neither tact nor moderation, speaking to me like that! If your emperors have nothing but stupid proposals, we'll settle elsewhere. Stand back! That will be all. Savary! Follow him along our front lines. This will edify you, sir. Soldiers! The Russian army comes before you, to avenge the shameful surrender of the Austrians at Ulm. We occupy formidable positions. When the Austro-Russians march to my right, they'll expose their flank! What a superb coincidence! Your emperor unveils his battle plan the day before. Does he take us for imbeciles? Does he imagine that we will change ours? How naive! Let's go! Long live the emperor! Long live the emperor! What do they think they'll do? - Swallow us up? - Maybe, but it won't be easy. What happened to presenting arms? Here! Take it if you like, it's rusty! - I can't take any more. - You should be retired. What are you doing here at your age? I'm watching you. But now I can't take it anymore. - You're watching me? - Yes! But why? To find out how far you'll make us walk! You strange man! - So you're watching me? - Yes! - But you never watch me. - What? Yes, I was a veteran at Arcole. But you never paid me the slightest attention, Mr. Alboise de Pontoise Seine-et-Oise! Yet such a name is memorable! So I figured when I have the honor, I would tell shorty I was watching him. Shorty? Yes, that's what I call you. Everyone calls you that behind your back, no one dares say it to your face. We all call you shorty. Fine. Shorty. But I'd like to know what you blame me for, Malboise. No, Alboise de Pontoise Seine-et-Oise! I blame you for the Old Guard being taken out of commission. In Arcole and Rivoli it was still military service, but afterwards? Go home, you're too old. Don't insult me, Majesty. Age matters not to your soldiers! You're not a man, you're a grunt! What did you call me? A man who grunts like you is a grunt. Cute retort. Almost as good as shorty! Don't bother, General, I lost it in Marengo. Come, gentlemen, before I weep. Have him made a sergeant! Ségur! Set smoke at fake camps between Turas and the ponds. - Very well, Sire. - You heard me, fake camps! Kutuzov is gathering his troops on the Pratzen plateau. I know. Why don't you take this magnificent position? Because I would only gain an ordinary victory. By abandoning it to them, I tempt them. If they dare come down from those heights to flank my right, even with 300,000 men, they'll already have lost. You're always right. In any case, I... A bad master general is better than two good generals. That's it! Russian outposts have been set up. - Stupid move! - They'll fall into your trap! Like a cat that tries to catch the mouse in the mirror. Before tomorrow evening, the enemy armies will be mine. Write that down, boy! Buxhowden! Gentlemen, our emperors want to fight the battle at dawn. And since I know the land... What about Napoleon, do you know him? He has overtaken us. It is impossible to gather my troops on the Pratzen plateau, if he attacks us. Kutuzov, age has made you fearful. I have planned for this eventuality. He will not attack. Believe me. Once, your troops are gathered, you will clear the plateau, then lead your 32,000 men towards the ponds. What? Abandon the plateau? That's insane, I refuse! I will never do that, you hear me, never in my life! General, that is my plan! - Who goes there? - Arcole, Rivoli! Tomorrow, we play for the whole of Europe. Berthier, write down my orders as I go along. Sire, why surround the village of Austerlitz, you evacuated this morning? Because, thanks to you, Soult, I hope to sleep there tomorrow. Write that down, my boy. So… They must have… 90,000 men. We have 60,000. They're already defeated. Go on! I assume the Austro-Russians, want to capture the Grand Army, by cutting my lines of retreat at Vienna. To encourage them, to follow their plans, and to make them attack my right to the south, here, near the frozen ponds, I overly reduced troop numbers on my right. To turn around, the emperors will have to weaken the Pratzen plateau, from which all their columns must leave with Kutusov. This plateau will therefore become very vulnerable, and that is where I'll direct all our effort when the time comes, to cut their army off in the middle. Have Caffarelli set off at two o'clock in the morning. Tell him there'll be a great battle. Murat's cavalry won't be enough! What more can you give me? Hautpoul and Nansouty's cuirassiers, Beaumont and Walther's dragoons, Milhaud and Kellermann's hunters. Are you sure this place is flat? I checked it out myself. I predict a very large cavalry engagement there. Your divisions, those of Vandamme and Saint-Hilaire… will cross the Volbach. Here, this stream, via the villages of… Jurkovicz and Puntowitz. These names hurt my tongue. We'll change them! And you'll seize the Pratzen plateau at all costs. But wait! Only on my order. Pardon? I don't understand Russian. Oh, right, yes! And I don't understand German. General, you know I'm French and don't understand much German or Russian. Fine. I hope everyone understands French? - Yes. - Alright, so… We've noticed, troop movements to the left of the enemy here. So, I deduce, that the Corsican is weakening his center with the intention, of strengthening his left flank. Thus, the bulk of our two armies, along with Kutuzov's column, which will descend from the Pratzen plateau, will impede the French right flank and cut off the road to Vienna. To be precise, gentlemen, the bulk of the army, along with Kutuzov's column, descended from the Pratzen hills, will turn away the French right flank and surround them by the ponds in order to completely cut them off on the road to Vienna. This is all very well, General. But if our enemies attack Pratzen, during our descent, what do we do? This is unlikely. I don't think it should be considered. You know Bonaparte's audacity. If he wished to attack, he'd have done so today. If so, he faces defeat. But I think him too clever to be reckless. Let's say he falls back, or changes his position… Even then, our armed forces' positions will remain the same. I think, gentlemen, you understand, that my plan, is a simple copy of Bonaparte's in Castiglione. Kobelnitz! Set up the third division around this château. Reinforce it with two battalions of skirmishers, and a detachment of General Margaron's cavalry. Sire, the 3rd division has but the 3rd line and Corsican hunters. Have them focus on Telnitz. It's the closest point to the ponds. Have them hide in the shallows, hidden amongst the reeds. Watch for fog, you don't want to shoot each other. - Hear that, Berthier? - Yes, sire. The 3rd division will await orders. Be sure to clarify which recognition signals you'll use: drums and trumpets. Above all, don't let them walk across frozen ponds. What? Was my trap that visible? No, sire, but Lannes and the rest of us figured you wanted to attract the Russians to these ponds, when you examined the thickness of the ice with your sword. Your officers will have the details of this operation before dawn. Gentlemen, know that this battle signals the end of Napoleon's reign. And, after the victory, we'll meet at the walls of Bruenn. General, Bonaparte has only one strength remaining. May I ask you which one? His soldiers' memory of their republican victories. The Republic? Ah! He's nearly killed it, and this morning, we'll finish it off. Count on me, that's the only thing I am here for. General Kutuzov! You didn't hear what Weyrother said, you were asleep. No, I heard. My dear, sir, you must learn, that the Russian bear only ever sleeps with one eye closed. But why do you want me to intervene against a man who wants to imitate the inimitable? Ah, if my hands were free! I obtained this from my spies. Here. What is it? This is the secret code for French trumpet signals. Know what I think, Langeron? I'm not at all keen on a Frenchman telling me that. If I could kill this tyrant myself, I would. All the same, if I were a French officer as you are, Langeron, and could serve a leader like him, I'd be on the other side. Where is my orderly? Sleeping, I expect. Langeron, hand me my coat. Right, let's go! - Berthier! - Sire? Take orders for General Friant. Tell him to stop at Grossfriegen. He's there already. Friant traveled 36 leagues from Vienna, to Grossfriegen in 48 hours? Some exhausted soldiers were left behind, but the bulk of the troops are here. General Friant, sire! How wonderful, of you to come to our aid without orders. You are brave! - What a soldier! What a leader! - We love you, sire! You must have five regiments of infantry and… Six dragoons under your command, Sire, or what remains of them. Seven to eight thousand men in all. Hold your position in Grossfriegen. In reserve, with Eblé. There, ready to pounce on Sokolnitz. I expect them at this position. You bear a magnificent responsibility. You're worthy of it! Davout! Assist him with all your divisions. He'll be facing much of the enemy's forces. You can count on me, sire. But at seven against one, we'll struggle to stay alive. Rapp! With your Mamluks and hunters, and with Marshal Bessières' support, maintain the initiative, and attack compromised points. Watch out for Alexander's knights-guards. Murat, with your 11,000 horses, you must find the breach, to disrupt the Prince of Lichtenstein's 82 squadrons. You know the Austrian cavalry is the best in the world? - Your Majesty? - Get Grenadier Fills from Oudinot. With Lejeune's help, he'll draw sketches of me and the battle. To motivate crowds you first need, to appeal to their eyes. Let us confirm by the fires of the enemy's camps, if our predictions were correct. - Who goes there? - Arcole! Rendezvous at six o'clock, men. Are the signals between my six corps all set? Yes, Majesty. In three hours it will be operational. These signals are too slow! Volta should fix that with his electricity. Chappe, give my orders at dawn. Berthier, double them by dispatch rider, in code. Daumesnil! Ivan! Mount up, men! Caffarelli! Oudinot! Morlan! Rapp! - Are we near Pratzen? - Alas, yes, Majesty! You're in grave danger. General Langeron has Cossack outposts on the outskirts. I don't like your advice. Come. - General! - Yes! Napoleon is here, nearby, in person! Go after this group and take the emperor dead or alive! Go! Go, get him! Go! Get the horses out of the mud. I'm returning to camp. Sire, you will be lost! No, I won't! Hey! Damn idiot! Watch where you step! Wait a moment… Oh get lost! Oh, shit! I beg your pardon, General! Majesty! - I was sleeping. - Alboise de Pontoise! Pardon, "de Seine-et-Oise"! A sergeant and still complaining? There are no kicks in... - Alboise de Seine-et-Oise? - No, "de Pontoise". Long live the emperor! Long live the emperor! Long live the emperor! Long live the emperor! Long live the emperor! Your Majesty, the enemy is burning the camps! Look! Who goes there? Long live the emperor! This way! This way! Sire! Sire, we were looking for you everywhere. Majesty, aren't you worried the fires will betray our positions? No. They'll think we're burning our camps to cover the retreat. Long live the emperor! Rapp! Best night of my life. Long live the emperor! I'm getting worried. It's all for show, Your Majesty! He wants to frighten us with his huffing and puffing. You don't believe his plans? No, he's not that naive. But the thousands of fires? They cover his retreat. They're ready to leave. And they're burning their camps, as I predicted. What was that? That's the order for Kutuzov to start his descent from the plateau. But he's only just arrived. I want his men to come down as soon as they arrive. We will cut them off! And… if the fog will help us, then I promise you, Majesty, we will capture the entire army! Marvelous, Francois! Look at the star! This is the star we saw at Marengo and Rivoli! Heaven is speaking to me! It's for victory… Pontoise! The marshals will arrive at six o'clock this morning. Depending on the enemy's movements this night, I'll give my final orders. - Wake me in one hour. - Very well, sire! Look, the fog thickens in the valley. It's a veritable gift from heaven! It will assist our flanking maneuver. The French have lost, this time! The time has come! Everyone move out! Fall in! Forward! March! Departure and deployment of all troops! Forward! March! Stop! - Jawohl! - Yes, sir. Departure and deployment of all troops! Departure! What about General Weyrother's order? Who commands the right wing, him, or me? I refuse! Langeron and Przybyszewski have not received the orders. Everyone is in charge! There is no cooperation. These two youngsters never stop, polishing their nails and contradicting each other. We will lose the battle, if I don't break their center. Moreover, if you go down there, it will bring about terrible confusion. We should stay on the plateau, and save them. Thank you, Mikhail Illarionovitch! Their Majesties give the order to commence the descent. Very well, I'll go! Since it's an order. They don't know what they're doing. Prepare for the descent! Lannes! - Is he not here? - Here he is. It's so cold! Terrible fog this morning. - Where is the emperor? - Still sleeping. It's time. I'll wake him. Sire! Sire! I bring you the latest reports. Sire, I am ashamed! All your commanders are here. Now, gentlemen… A great day is about to commence. Fills! May it be remembered in your drawings. Pictures also win victories, in their own way. Everything I planned is happening. The enemy throws himself at our right flank. What a mistake! They could have attacked, but no, they want to cut me off from Vienna, and capture my entire army. They must think me young. I won't change my positions. I want to confound their pride, and end this war with a heavy strike! In half an hour, the entire line must be on fire, and by four this afternoon, the enemy armies must be destroyed! Gentlemen, I'm counting on you! Long live the emperor! Caffareli, over here! Go! - What time is it? - Seven o'clock, sire. Look, sire. The troops on the Pratzen plateau are mobilizing, and your enemies descend into the fog, where your troops are hiding. The time has come! Don't interrupt the enemy while he's making a mistake. How much time do you need to capture Pratzen? - Twenty minutes. - Soult. Prepare for the best work of your life. But wait! Do not leave until I give the order! Long live the emperor! Present arms! Present arms! Soldiers! We must finish this campaign… with a clap of thunder! Sire, the sound of horses can be heard on the right coming from the ponds. The first Russian columns committing suicide! By sundown, their army will be mine. Write that down, Ségur! Chappe! Can we see your signals at 800 yards? Yes, Your Majesty! Communicate to Santon Hill. Have Claparède open fire with grapeshot from its 18 cannons. In one minute! Yes, Your Majesty! Sire, see how both of Lannes' divisions are set in motion! Down there! Suchet's division is on the foothills! There, Caffarelli, protected by Kellermann's cavalry. And far away, over there, that enormous mass is the enemy! The 82 Austro-Russian squadrons! A battle of titans is brewing! It's so beautiful, so magnificent, to experience this with you. I want to find the title of my chapter for this day, December 2nd. Here's the title, my boy. The Sun of Austerlitz. For God's sake, we can't stand around here like statues! So that he wins the battle only with his eyes. They wanted the Pratzen plateau as a dessert, we'll give it to him as an appetizer! To battle! Attack! You! Music for the battalion! We'll break their flanks! Let's hear the music! Sire! A squad of the Old Guard just attacked without orders. My God! Run and stop them, they'll be killed! Those grunts have no shame. Marshal Berthier. - To die for me? - No? Alboise! Pontoise Seine-et-Oise! It's gone! At least he can't pull it anymore! Stop! Combat position! Stop! The French are 100 paces away. Tell me… Do you see movement down there? Yes, Captain. Perhaps it is the 108th line. In the marsh, looking for us. As soon as we get back, pound this swamp. Trumpets! Decipher this for me! Go ahead, play! It's the 108th line. Answer it! Weapons on the sling! Nothing to fear, men! March! Charge! Cross bayonets! Captain! Captain! Onwards! Charge! Fall in! Gather round! Fall in! - What have you done? - Half the company has fallen! Flee to Sokolnitz! Fall in! Fall in! Save yourselves! Run! The 108th will spread panic. Now we can take the village! They're attacking Sokolnitz! Fire on the defense! Fire! - At your orders, General! - Sound the retreat! Stay here with the 14th. I'll cover it with my squadron. Prepare to retreat and cover all sides! Fire! Quietly! Murat! If Sokolnitz falls, our right falls! Let them have it! - Rush to Bagration! - Yes! Your Majesty! The traitor Langeron has taken Sokolnitz, allowing Kienmayer to take Telnitz. Then Friant is on the way and will be here in minutes. Meanwhile, our line is broken by Dokhturov's unit, which has just joined Kienmayer! Przybyszewski is already surrounding your right in order to break it! It doesn't matter. They're carrying out their plan. I've not started mine. Berthier! Let Davout proceed to weaken our lines to the Sokolnitz marshes while we wait for Friant to arrive. Double up at Chappe. - But your right will break! - No! Bending is not breaking! Let Friant make his junction with the 3rd line, and fight to the last. But, sire! Friant has but 10,000 exhausted men remaining, against 50,000! It's impossible! You speak of manpower? I ask only that he hold position, not advance! Until reinforcements and Bourcier's regiments arrive. Now, leave! You're pathetic! Eblé! - Is it time, sire? - No! I await Murat and Lannes to relieve my left. I fear only Bagration and Kutusov. - I'm going! - No, not yet! I only hope Lannes… - Murat! - Yes! - The emperor sent me! - Your turn, Murat! Take your 11,000 horses across Olmeutz road, and bring Bagration to Austerlitz, drums beating. Cut off the Russian lines for now. Advance! Nansouty! Cattaneo! We've been played! We must prevent the French from seizing the plateau! It's been 15 minutes, sire! Soult! Don't forget, that the battle's fate depends on taking possession of Pratzen. Look, General, the French are coming! Does it not seem to you, Your Majesty, that your plans are compromised, and that by forcing Kutusov to bring his columns down, you have prematurely withdrawn from the plateau? Don't be alarmed, Majesty. Within an hour their right will be cut off and imprisoned. Dokhturov and Langeron will turn them away. Stop the decent and advise Lichtenstein get me out of this mess! Intensify shooting! Officers, follow me! Kutuzov can retreat before battle, but never during! Napoleon won't reinforce his right flank? We're surrounded on three sides! Why is Buxhowden idle with his 50,000 men? I'm leaving with the emperors! It's too hot here! You're not at a carnival, coward! Go back! Soult is here! Soult on the plateau? My God! My God! We'll be cut off by Dochtouroff! Enough! We need the Austrian infantry to come to our aid! Prepare to fire! Finally! We're on the Pratzen plateau! Thank you, Soult! You are the best tactician in Europe! The Russian Imperial Guard and the bulk of the Austrian army are annihilated. What news of my right flank? - Sire, Friant and Davout will be defeated! - I'm on my way! Soult, and his entire army corps, Oudinot and his ten battalions, forty canons and myself. We leave now to the ponds. Bernadotte, stay here in Pratzen, fire non-stop on the enemy, when you see them on the frozen ponds. Yes, sire! Langeron, I expected the success of your column and that of Przybyszewski. What more could I do? We're nearly lost while you immobilize 29 battalions! You see only enemies around you! You can't see anything in your condition! - I command you to stop! - You're drunk! Run to the marshes! Of victory we sing! I've seen battles lost before, but I never imagined such a terrible defeat. - What time is it? - Five o’clock. Sire, the enemy is defeated! Gentlemen, the battle is won! In five hours, we vanquished Europe! The Russian Imperial Guard is crushed, the Austrian cavalry is fleeing, Kollowrath's column annihilated in the ponds. Write it down! All of you, and my soldiers, have surpassed my expectations. I am proud of you! We must prepare a decree. The State adopts all the children of French soldiers killed at Austerlitz. Six thousand francs for their widows. Yes. The other one. - You disobeyed me. - Huh? - You disobeyed me! - Yes. And if we bury it, my second ear will listen to, what the dead say down there. All those who shouted this morning, "long live the emperor!" It may not be nice to hear, what they think now. Whence those cries? From thousands of helpless Russians in the lakes. Sire, what do we do with the thousands of wounded? Our ambulances are overflowing! Light fires for them while they wait for help. It's awful! Remove coats from the dead to cover the injured! How silent it is. At least here we hear the moans of those we might save. HONOR TO NAPOLEON AND HIS SOLDIERS KOUTOUZOV D'Alboise! I saw him! - He spoke to me. - Oh! And? He wanted to pull my other ear! AUSTERLITZ CASTLE HQ OF THE MAJESTIC EMPEROR OF FRANCE And another thing! When he comes back, you'll all stand, and shout madly, "long live the emperor!" And then you'll march behind him! Long live the emperor! Unprecedented victory, Your Majesty! Abandoned by their men, the two emperors have fled to Hungary! Sire, General Friant! Sire! I bring you the 45 flags taken from the enemy for the anniversary of your coronation. Sire, look at the bonfires and your soldiers' enthusiasm. Majesty, would you give the order to play the Marseillaise? - It was almost three years ago. - Tonight, yes. It's appropriate. Long live the emperor! What's the damage, Berthier? Only 2000 soldiers out of commission. The enemy lost 15,000 dead, 30,000 prisoners, and leaves 186 canons to France, over there. The world never saw such a victory. Release the prisoners. I want to see only free men before me. A bridge will be built in Paris, bearing the name Austerlitz. And two triumphant arches. One at Place du Carrousel, the other at the top of the Champs-Elysées. We'll melt these cannons to erect a bronze column. - Where, sire? - Place Vendôme. Soldiers! On the day of the battle of Austerlitz, you have decorated your eagles with immortal glory! An army of 100,000 men, commanded by two emperors, was dispersed or drowned in lakes in less than five hours. My people will see you again with joy, and you will only have to say, you were at the Battle of Austerlitz, for them to answer, "That is a brave man!" THE END Subtitle translation by: Emma Sayers