"No matter how powerful the enemy is," "they will all be destroyed when facing the Bei Wei legion" From Yunlu Journal His fever won't drop. Keep observing. We still need antivenom. How's his leg? - Can It be cured? - Yes, It can. Okay. Ke Tong, come here, hurry! Come over and check his leg. His name is Abu Tom, an elder of Alibu village. The equipment we have here just can't diagnose for him - What the promblem is. - It's a soft tissue tumor. Hospitalization is all he needs. What do you mean? He can't be cured here, we better put him out of his misery. This is against our principles! The drug is yours now. Do as you see fit. To Luxor. To Luxor. What's your name? I'm Ke Tong. I knew it was you! Ke Tong See? Sorry, I just gave up on a patient. I'm really not in the mood. Here's the deal, there is an urgent job in Java. Are you interested? I don't do jobs. Don't get me wrong, I'll introduce myself. We are a Sino-German joint venture as a 3rd-party health insurance company. I'm the head of the Medical Emergency Aid department, call me Linda. Here. Medical Emergency Aid department I just received an email that there are twelve children in Java who were trapped at Bromo Volcano. We are understaffed, but with you... Let's head for the city airport then. You're in? Thanks a ton! I'm just doing a doctor's job. Actually, we don't have to get to the city. Just come with me. Stop! What are you... Come on. Lady, I can carry that myself! Lady! Why? All my credentials are in there! Are you insane? You should see a mental doctor! Do you understand what you just did? Sorry about that, there wasn't room for landing. Let me introduce, these are my company colleagues. You managed to not scream down there, right? To our first team-up. Cheers! I don't know what you're up to, but I'm very sure that I'm kidnapped! Who are you? Where is this place? We're on their territory. Don't be rash, just surrender. Scar is back! You see? My intel was right. That is the Medical Emergency Aid team. Is that the doctor you told me about? Why are you always asking stupid questions? You better not be lying to me. Yes, sir. My friends. That's him. Let's go. Go! Get in here. All kneel, show your hands where I can see them! This is Taku Senior's younger brother, Taku Risan. There are several tiny bits of shrapnel lodged in his skull which have been there for 38 hours. Help him. It's a pretty simple operation, and if we can find a hospital... He's one of the leaders of the Cooley Armed Forces that has been hiding here for more than two years. They can't go out. The surgery can only be done right here. Do the surgery quickly, otherwise I will kill you all. He's under general anesthesia, hurry up and do it. You need to live. Come on, do it! Medical Emergency Aid department Sir, are you a doctor? - Good job. - Well done. We can stitch him up. Get up! You shoot me, and you'd never get out of this village. I know. If no one stitches the wound for your brother, his skull will not close. He wouldn't die for now, but you'll still need me to find you another doctor. What do you want? A few months ago, someone built a small factory on your territory. Your brother must have received a lot of their protection fees, show me the location. Come on, your brother is bleeding. Kid, stitch him up. There is a jeep 3 miles northeast of the village, there's a little gift inside. I hope your brother will recover soon. After the surgery, I will give you 10 minutes. Yes, sir. - One more condition! - What? After the surgery, you let them go. Just do it! Found it! The jeep is here! General, these are all anti-inflammatory drugs. - Just What we need. - Yeah... You kidnapped me here only for that surgery? So it's done, let me go. Get off! These are the arms you ordered, all shipped in from Europe. Shipped by whom? The Solntsevskaya Bratva. You leveraged those gansters? We'll use whatever help we have. Hold it, I ordered Polymer magazine D-60 for the drum and the MBUS Pro Offset 45-degree mechanical sight. Where is the ELCAN Specter DR optical scope? - Get off! - Fly is showing off to Handsome. Get off! Fly-bo, take it easy. I don't care what you're up to, but could you please get me out of Cooley first? Have you heard of the Beiwei Army? The elite troop led by historical figure Yue Fei? An Doctor of Medicine and a historian! Now I understand the name to Diao's company, so this is what it means. You are a private military company? Pretty much. Beiwei International Security and Defense Company. Emergency Exit Hey, he ran away. Go play for a while and bring him back to me. Diao, that's not part of our contract. Shut up. I'll pay extra, one ton per person. Deal! - Fireball! Release drone! - Okay! Target locked. Medical Emergency Aid department Monstrosity, your 10 o'clock. Diao, this is taking too long! Let me do it! Monstrosity, let Fly do it. We lost him! Fireball, get his position! Get in! We'll pick Handsome up! Medical Emergency Aid department Faint-hearted, suffer from sleep deprivation? What do you want from me? Our business is not done, so we can't send you back. We're in need for an observer anyway, how about helping us till the end? You kidnapped me and threw all my credentials, who even pointed your gun twice at my head. How dare you ask me for help so shamelessly? I'll pay you 300,000 dollars in Euro, okay? I'm not a mercenary, I'm a doctor. Since you are a doctor, you should know better than depriving yourself from normal sleep may kill you. He does medical assistance everywhere and pays little attention to his own health! I don't know if he wants to live or die. Every year, he goes to Israel and Venezuela to train in special operations techniques, self-funded! All for what, pray tell me? Who the heck are you? How did you get this... Whose knife is this? Finish the job and I'll send you back. Also, your new documents will be delivered by mail. Tell me whose knife it is!! Take it easy, man. Sign the contract and stay with us to finish the job, then I'll tell you the full story of it. Sign in Fingerprint What job is it? Not a dirty one, don't worry. When did you become my Wechat contact? After arriving at our destination, if you see this person in the photo... I mean, if ever, catch him alive and deliver him to the Cooley government. Is this relevant to the job? Our target building is a small factory, specialized in the production of this. They made hundreds of them. Destroy them all. I'll give you a minute to remember the job details. Get to work. A pressure regulator? What is it for? Read the contract again. All our identities and activities have nothing to do with our client, and no person or organization will be responsible for our actions and safety. Don't be a drag. Get it done, get paid and leave. Monstrosity was the one who threw your backpack, she is in charge for intelligence. He's Saiyan, my old brother-in-arms and a skilled sniper. Bombshell is in charge of suppressive fire. Fly is a veteran referred by a security headhunter. Fireball does communication and tech stuff. Check your arms. Are your binoculars in there? What? Who said you may touch it? I don't want to, but he asked me to be your observer! Let go of me! If you ever break it, you're doomed. Assemble. Three thirty-eight and twelve second in the afternoon of Cooley time. We dive into action on time after the fog clears. We'll have 5 minutes 30 seconds for operation, and 15 minutes to pull out. You're cleared to shoot combatants, but not the civilians. Intel indicates there may be reinforcements 3km southwest of here. Stay alert. Depart! Why are we allowed to kill? This operation is illegal! What are you doing? Let go! You've crossed the line! Handsome, my lines are further away from where you thought they were. Let go! It's time. The weather is getting colder... A quarter mil to the right. Shut up. I have a grudge with calculators. Copy. Ten. Diao, there are only 10 regulators. - Do as planned. - Copy. Father! Father! Are you insane? Retreat! Pull out! 15! 350 meters! Two in the corner... No, three... Four! Rooftop at 11 o'clock, RPG! Go! Saiyan, are you asleep or what? I'm being pinned down! One minute! Go! Scram! Attention! Enemy at 6 o'clock! Saiyan! I'm coming! One second! I need ammo! Here! Hurry up! Enemy behind the wall! I want them all dead! That was you? I saw you safely evacuated... You could have gotten us killed! - I didn't know that! - Have You even think It through? - We'd all be dead! - If I didn't shoot, - the girl would die! - What were You thinking? - I just wanted to save her! - Nothing but saving her? Oh, you want to save her? Do you think they can still be alive now? I saw with my own eyes that the girl's father was shot by them. I just want to ask you this. Were you watching when my father died? If you put my brothers in this kind of danger again, I'll shoot you in the head. Found them. We've delayed too much, the swimming Pool has definitely retreated. Hurry up. What are you waiting for? Tell me now, whose knife is it? Do you want guns? He said they had guns for sale in the village. Let's go and see. Boss. What's up? Search his body. Fake ID-card. Airport Ground Work Permit What's wrong with this place? A child labor at the airport? Question him. Who are you? Why do you have a fake airport ground staff ID? Who you work for? Answer me! Hurry up and say! Stop! Back off! You idiot! You mercenaries are all animals! - Handsome, put down the gun. - Don't do it. - Drop the gun! - Let him go! This kid may be related to those regulators. He'll spread our news when he gets back, you know? Don't push me. Go... Tell me now, whom does that knife belong to? My mother spoke to me before she died. If I can find the pattern on this paper, I'll find the one who murdered my father. Show him your knives. Every employee we have hired has a knife like this. Diaochan is my nickname, Big Ghost is your father's nickname. Shut up. He's no Big Ghost! Your father's name is Ke Yan, right? He is my older brother-in-arms and my senior. The Beiwei company was registered in partnership of us both. You're lying. My dad can't be a mercenary. 11 years ago, there was a tough job. And your father had an accident. Buddy. How did he end up like this? Accident. Why not cremate there and then? His wife was dubious and wanted an autopsy in Penang. We can't. His body parts are missing. Impossible. We had collected for more than three hours, how can there be missing parts? I told you, there are parts missing. Since your mother died, I've been watching you. You've had a bad time all these years. You ran around the world in the name of a charity doctor, only to follow in your father's traces to look for an answer, right? This is not the answer! My father was not a mercenary who abandoned his family for money! Your father fought the terrorists and rescued three journalists and two civilians! I don't believe it, You are a total liar! You are all liars! We just let him go? This village is no longer safe, we'll go to the safe house. Trash the guns in this cellar, and we'll pull out. Jasinu. - What happened? - I'm sorry, Aiqbayr. They found out my fake ID-card. If I didn't tell them, they would have killed me too. It's okay... No! - Hassaya! No! - Remember. It was those mercenaries who killed your sister and my brothers. Don't leave me, my daughter! Hassaya! So we meet again. We have a seat for you! What a coincidence! What else can I do without my credentials? Fresh Inn What are you looking at? Let me see. You nosy bum. Hey, Fly. Before this job, weren't you on a ship-escorting mission? You've been there a while. How can you be sure it's your child? Shut up. Everyone knows you're dreaming of messing up with Monstrosity! I'm telling you, I'm just her type of man! You understand? That's World War I tricks. You're still using it? Vintage tricks still work. How old is your kid now? He's probably a teenager by now. Then he should be having a girlfriend now. Unlikely. His mother's always watching. When the job is done, find a chance to go back to sneak a look. Nonsense, I'd scare them both. Right now, we're awaiting the client's further instructions. Well, you go and take some rest. I'll go up to get some air. Before coming here, there was a British security company that assigned me an easy job. - It was juicy. - How juicy? Client was a Singapore company. On the surface, it's bodyguarding for their CEO. But in fact, it's searching for commercial spies. I am different from you now, I am a man with a family. My girl at home does not want me to take the tough jobs from Diao. Gossiping behind Diao again? Don't mind me. How dare you mess with my girl! I'm here for some air. Why are you following? You kidnapped me here, so you got to get me out now. Mission is not complete, so we have no way to leave the country for now. Yeah, right. No final payment until job's done. Beiwei offers bursary programs in twelve countries, It sponsored more than 30 charity schools in China. That's not what I want to hear. So what do you want to hear? I want to hear the truth. What's this rooftop romance? You want to mess with me? World War I tricks. You used this obsolete cipher to pass your intel. As I have specific deciphering software and codes in my phone, so deciphering your mission information to the client was a piece of cake. When did you sync from my phone? How did Diao manage to get me on his Wechat without me knowing it? It's because while we were on the helicopter, you had already synced from my phone. This deciphering software was from a good friend of mine in Venezuela, as a birthday present. It's easy to sync back to your phone. You deleted the note picture in time, but left the landscape photo. So I decoded that little red mark. What did the little goatherd mean? Who was the Asian woman he talked about? If such a life was really out of my father's own choice, I would like to know why. Then you can only ask him yourself, in heaven. Well, you do not believe what I say anyway. Those regulators you planned to destroy, what were they used for? Who is the client? Fine, I'll make an exception and tell you. The employer is a company called TKGB. You're lying, your client this time is the Ministry of Defense of Cooley. Ministry of Defense of Cooley Ministry of Defense of Cooley If your client is really the Ministry of Defense of Cooley, then you do have a line drawn much further from what I had thought. You also have the support of atellite navigation. What's so strange about that? Anyone has atellite navigation. Diao. If working with you and risking his own life was really out of my dad's own choice, then his reason was anything but money. As for what it was, I hope you can give me an answer. Cooley Ministry of Defense did give us support in transportation, but our direct client is really TKGB. The contact is Shamseddin Zoda, their general manager. - I don't believe it. - Believe It or not. Diao! Who was the Asian woman the little goatherd talked about? Will you ever stop? Everyone hold your fire, on my command. Put down your gun! Hands up! Here. Cooley Ministry of Intelligence They made a lot of fake pressure regulating valves in underground factory and they have all been transferred. What does it mean? It means these fake pressure release valves have already been transferred into the natural gas field. No way! The work of this new gas field is under our personal supervision. There must've been a mole in the construction process. Handsome, you are something. All these years, I've never seen anyone who can get under the nose of Diaochan without getting noticed. That's because your limbs are stronger than your brains. Did Handsome laugh at me too? I did not. You did. I was laughing at all of you, for your stupidity. Working for Diao only because of money. If this is delayed, the Chinese representative and Minister of Resources of China need to call an urgent meeting to negotiate then issue an electronic contract to sign. The signature, of course, is by retinal scan. The time is so tight that representative of Asian company must be informed to leave immediately. We found this from a kid in the village near the underground factory. Several villages around are the territory of God Slave 206, they arranged for me to work at the airport. If I see an Asian woman, I must send a signal directly to the boss, Aiqbayr. There's a man named Aiqbayr who arranged him in the airport ground staff. He said if he saw an Asian woman, he'd signal them. What Asian woman? Xingli Group Our natural gas fields are in frozen soil, with high maintenance costs. Honglong Field has good quality and low cost. The international market will put us out of business once the gas is transferred. We must destroy the reputation for Group, and the pipeline must be released on time. If not, we're going to die. I want that project lose the reputation in the eastern and western world. Don't worry. - Understand what I'm talking about? - Yes. Those pressure regulators have already been phased out. Great. Now, I'll show you my kingdom. Stop here. Qu Feng Qu Feng, the representative of the cooperating company. I think you should come to our company. How is it? Can we leave the country? Check your bank accounts, the payment should be there now. That's a model client, they paid before the job was completed! What about those regulators? TKGB is a joint venture energy company between Xingli Group and Cooley's Ministry of Resources with 300 million investment each and responsible for all gas pipeline construction in Central Asia. Check the accounts, hurry up. You don't want get paid? I guess the ones who provide transportation was the Energy Security Inspectorate in Cooley, am I right? We can't leave the country yet. We have to stay a few more days for another job, and the pay is tripled. Diao! Beiwei security company is actually working for the security of Xingli Group. Party A's interests are above all else, right? Not a tough job, just Level 1 security. The target is Qu Feng. Qu Feng, that's her. She is the topmost representative of this energy corporation as know as TKGB's major shareholder. Diao... Handsome doesn't know the rules, but you do, right? Diao! I know that my dad's choice surely had his reasons. He entrusted me to you so I could carry his job. Was this his last wish? I just saw that you lived a tough life after losting both parents, and I couldn't bear to see my oldest comrade's only son wandering around the world and trash himself with drugs. You get it? Diao. Boss. How about this? For the next few days, your pay will be 6 times than normal. I'm paying. The Honglong Gas Field is expected to start pumping on October 15th. The world's media will converge in Cooley, to witness historic moment of new Central Asian gas pipeline. According to intel, Cooley Intelligence Service found that there are dealers selling fake regulators in the black market. It is an energy-related component, so they paid special attention. The dealer has been found, who previously worked in that underground factory. Are you just going to sit there without a word? Don't waste your time. I just get paid to do my job, don't talk nonsense. We have sufficient evidence... Pressure regulators are installed in the gas pipeline of Honglong gas field. The ones we were going to destroy were fake ones. If they blended in with the engineering parts, we can forget about gas transfers... Even if only the pressure test, with one single detonation at the gas delivery port, its amplitude to the fake regulators will lead to an electric arc. Then like falling dominoes, one after another. Along the natural gas pipelines, it'll explode all the way to China. As long as Miss Qu Feng and the Minister of Resources are able to sign the contract successfully, the pressure testing and transferral can be delayed. We will also have time to check those hundreds of regulators in the gas delivery ports. Was the person in that WeChat photo affiliated with all this? If you see the person in the photo... I mean, if ever, catch him alive and deliver him to the Cooley government. The job I received then was to catch him alive if we ever encountered him, and the rest was none of our business. What we do now, is to escort Miss Qu Feng for a safe entry and exit. No surprises. There is something I've been wanting to ask you for a long time. I really am not interested in Monstrosity at all. Who's asking you about her? I meant to ask you that you never knew in your life what your father did for a career? I think that your father and Diao ran a security company on the surface, but they were carrying a certain mission down under. Your father... I don't mean anything bad. I didn't know at first why Diao wanted to pull you into the game. But now I think he was simply trying to give you a place to belong. I'd like to ask you, you've been risking your life with Diao for so many years, where do you want to belong? QSB11? Sharp eyes. 5.8mm dagger gun, old stuff from the army. Now, it is no longer in service. It was given to me by a senior. Also, because of him, I wanted to be a real warrior. And do something spectacular. Now that we are brothers in arms, we are brothers. Here. It your father's heritage, don't just give it away. I made it myself. But it's too big, it suits you better. Alright, then. Up... Okay... By the way, Diao doesn't look like a music person. Guan never listens to music. So what does he listen to? Some things that you lost may never return again. What do you mean? For Diaochan, he has lost everything. Everything but his life. Guan Zhiyang, Beiwei Security. Qu Feng. Everything you do in Cooley are mine to arrange. Sir, they just left the airport. Okay. Protect the target for a smooth negotiation, then leave as soon as possible once the contract of deferral is signed. TKGB Natural Gas Field Appendix Hey, Fly. Now that you are a man with a child, you should talk to Diao that steer away from such dangerous jobs. If something happens, you'll be dead. Don't jinx me. I have a bad feeling. Keep your eyes wide open. Number 1, copy that. Attention... Blue vehicle on the right. Keep going... Take the path on left. - Plan B... - Copy. Saiyan, don't Shoot! Target is not hostile. Diao, there is a car blocking the way. Clear it. Sir, still on the way. Diao, the checkpoint is closed. What? What was that? Cover! Stop! Jump! Let it crash! Emergency, Road Closed Fly! Something happened there. - Evacuate the building. - Sir, let's move. - No, we must stay here. - Okay. - Hurry up and run! - It's war! We have up to 5 minutes, pull out from rooftop after that. Mr Minister, we need four months to eliminate the fake regulators and you need time to catch the mole in your component factory too. Here is the full back-up plan for the test deferral and financial compensation, all the consequences are borne by Xingli Group. Listen to me... It's an emergency, please sign it now. If the gas transfer is continued in three days, there will be grave consequences. - There is no doubt about it! - Time is running out. Okay. Certification Pass Danger! The bomb! Go! Now! Take her away! Signature must be completed in 60 seconds or it's null and void! Let go of me! Get back! - You'll kill yourself! - I must go! Sir, please! Enemy, 4 o'clock! Hurry! Certification Pass Make sure the upload is complete! Go! Go! Bombshell! Go! Go! Mercenaries, my sister died because of you! Now, I'll kill you, all of you! Cancel Come help me. Bombshell! Bombshell, do you read me? Bombshell! Bombshell! Where are you? Bombshell? Bombshell! Speaking in russian Go away! Why are you doing this? I thought you were mercenaries! You're doing this for money, right? I've got plenty! Do you think you know us? Passport Gas transfer was deferred, mission accomplished. We'll leave in two days, going home. The Intelligence Service here will help with Bombshell's body, we will get his body bag tomorrow. Why did you disobey orders? Sorry, Diao. It was my fault. Please tell me, who is this person? That's Aiqbayr. Leader of the illegal armed group God Slave 206 in Cooley. They've been trained for years by Poldark Special Forces, and the eastern european energy plutocracy is behind them. These greedy plutocrats are coveting the cooperation projects of the natural gas fields, so to sabotage the cooperative gas project and discredit the project and Cooley is what they're all about. Those villagers nearby are also their minions. To make a living, they'll secretly sell the weapons of God Slave 206. We can't leave. The mission is complete. I know I shouldn't have saved that kid, that was my mistake... Listen to me! I'm a mercenary. In my eyes, nothing else matters other than the job itself. What about the death of your brother-in-arms? The decision is not ours to make! And it never should be! We are not a group without rules. Fine, what are we? What are we? The last thing Bombshell told me was that he was willing to risk his life to work with you, it wasn't for money. He wanted to find somewhere to belong. If I must give you an answer, all I can tell you is every job I take is also my mission. Doing whatever it takes to get the job done is what my whole life's about. That's all I can tell. How did you get to know Diao? My mother divorced because my father had abused her. She took me to France with an old fool, but she was cheated. So, desperate to make a living, she opened a local laundry in Marseille while raising me. Then later, we encountered a family mob group called Redmania. They threatened us, destroyed our laundry with Molotov cocktails and even kidnapped me. Diao was in Marseille on a mission back then, and that was how he saved me. Why do you call yourself Monstrosity? Because I've never lived a normal human life. That makes me a monstrosity, don't you think? On December 27th, early morning in Cooley, two blocks on Jardinen Street were hit by missiles. Casualties unknown. The Minister of Resources' house is reported to be destroyed. The illegal armed group God Slave 206 claimed earlier that they were responsible for the assault, as punishment to the government and Ministry of Resources of Cooley for collaborate with the Xingli Group on the construction of gas pipelines... I'm deeply sorry for your sacrifice. The mutinous soldiers belonged to the 4th Armored Battalion of Cooley National Army. According to the investigation, the car commander may have defected one month ago. The mole in the regulator processing plant has been detected. He's from God Slave 206, disguised as a worker. - Greetings, Chief Engineer Su. - Hello, take a look here. Our original plan was to engage pressure test and gas delivery three days ago. Although the plan is temporarily deferred, the preparations for the test were already in place. Since Qu Feng ruined his plan, so hijacking the gas field and detonate by force was their back-up plan? They have taken control of the gas field and forced the engineers to re-initiate the preset time for pressure test gas delivery, which will be 5 hours and 15 minutes from now. But the detonation position isn't at the gas delivery port in the field. I've analyzed the entire pipeline setup. Gas station 5, 7 and 14 should be the best stations for detonation. These stations are manned by fully armored companies, their defensive perimeter extends beyond the range of 120mm mortars. There are about 15 to 45 percent of local workers in these stations, and a large amount of part-time workers. The mole confessed, Gas station 14. The gas field is surrounded by full armored companies. In view of the safety of hostages, the TKGB specifically ask you to lead the storm attack. If the mission fails, we can only send fighter jets to drop fuel air explosive on Station 14 before the disaster. Guan, why are they dropping that fuel air explosive bomb? It's a fuel bomb that depletes the oxygen around Station 14 within a radius of 2 kilometers, so as to prevent pipeline explosion. There's no time, we need to split up. Group A, to rescue the hostages on the gas field, Group B to defuse the bomb at Station 14. This matter has not been disclosed to the media, and the president hopes that the people will never know about it. Ke Tong, Fireball. Follow me to Station 14 to defuse the bomb. Monstrosity, Saiyan and Fly. Go for the rescue mission of the gas field. - But... - Boss! No bargains! Do as you're told. Let's roll. - Yes, sir. - Hold it. I'm going with you. I'm familiar with its internal structure. Gas Station 14 Open parachute at 600m. Glide down. Drone showed at least 16 targets. Fire upon reaching altitude 150m, stay as quiet as possible. We got some rats. Let's get them, come on! Gas Station 14 Don't move! Everything is proceeding smoothly, just make sure you're settled with payment. Set. Mr Su, where is the exact location? I'm not sure either. But if they want to set up a bomb, it should probably be in that area. Fireball. Release drone. What's that? Stay low! Get down! Don't move! Get down! Head down! Help me! Help me out! Take it! Get down! Watch out! Closer! Ke Tong, help Mr Su to defuse the bomb. I'll avenge Bombshell. Copy. Fireball! Follow me! Go! Who's a technician? Anyone? Who can abort the preset gas transfer program? It's impossible! Only the retinal scan of Qu Feng or Minister of National Resources of Cooley can override the controls! Boss, hostages in the gas field are all secured. But there's less than 14 minutes until gas transfer, we can't turn it off. What happened? Got some bad news? Mr Su, there's ten more minutes until gas transfer. Starting from the gas release, the gas will be able to reach detonation point in 6 minutes! Where could that be? It must be in this area. That's my closest guess. Fireball, start your search from this pipe. No, wait! These pipes are sealed, there's only crude gas inside. - I'll lead the way. - Okay! Come and help. Come on! Hurry up, let's go. Try to follow me, and I'll snap his neck! He is one of you. Do you think I'll care? Stay away from this, forever. Go home. Go! Boss, we have 7 minutes until gas test. Has the bomb been defused yet? Attention Found it. Now, come on. One, two, three, up! - Slowly... - Wait, hold it! - Okay, Let me check. - It is wired... Fireball, how's it? I need some time. Hold. Remote and timer double detonation. We're lucky. The timer hasn't started. Countdown will start one second after gas release. In 5 minutes 55 seconds, it'll detonate when gas passes through here. Fireball. Evacuate the hostages. Go! - Go, leave! - Let's get out of here! Go... So, we're doomed? To the heroes at gas station 14, I'm very sorry that I've already ordered the fighter plane to release bomb in 4 minutes and 15 seconds. What you did will be written in the history, I'm very sorry. I represent all the people of Cooley, and I thank you very much for your sacrifice. You are heroes. All my respect. Wife Diao. The gas is in. I know already! Start the countdown, 5 minutes and 52 seconds! - Diao... - Wait! Mr Su. In case of a pipeline accident, what do you use to intercept the gas flow? Only flange covers are available at Station 14. - Where are they? - Right there. - The toolbox is there too! - Okay! Captain Guan, you want to disassemble the pipe? Is it feasible? That's a pressurized tank, the gas are turned into liquid after two pressurizations. If I depressurize at Valve 3... Just tell me if I can disassemble this pipe! You can, but I am afraid that we don't have enough time. Tools! 2 minutes 14 seconds left. - Liquid nitrogen tank! - Okay. - How long Can You defer it? - Flange covers here! - A minute or two. - Release it! Captain Guan, this is not enough. I need more help. Mr Su! Can we help? We need to cut off the flow with a flange cover! No problem! Ready to drop the bomb. 15 seconds to go. Quick, it's removed! Hold it, quick! The bomb has been defused! Answer me! Report, we got the laser code. Confirmed that the bomb is cleared. Do you confirm the defusing? Confirm... Confirmed, allowed to return... Yes, sir. They could've lit it up with anything, why bother using a big bomb? Happy New Year. Bombshell My good brother. Your comrades from Beiwei are here to see you off. I will still go on to walk on this road of no return. Someday when I reach the end, we'll meet again and drink our fill. Human Remain